                             TABLE OF CONTENTS
TABLE OF CONTENTS​                                1
CORE ACCELERANT RULES​                            3
    Rules of Etiquette​                           3
    Game Actions​                                 3
    Safety Restrictions​                          5
    Rules Restrictions​                           6
    Prop Restrictions​                            6
    Game Environment​                             7
    Combat​                                       8
    Beneficial Effects​                          14
    Special Attacks​                             14
    Vitality​                                    15
    Death​                                       16
    Attack Effects​                              17
    Attack Traits​                               30
    Defenses​                                    32
    Defense Traits​                              33
    Armor​                                       34
    Traps​                                       34
    Verbal Modifiers​                            36
    Additional Rules and Gameplay​               37
IN DARKENED DREAMS​                              39
Characters​                                      39
    Traits​                                      39
    Attributes​                                  39
    Armor​                                       40
    Spell-like Abilities​                        41
    Stress​                                      41
    Touch Attacks​                               42
Heritage​                                        43
    Solari​                                      43
    Grelkyn​                                     43
    Umbrethil​                                   44
    The Blossom Elves​                           45
    The Lucent-Bound​                            46
    The Aethermarked​                            48
Factions​                                        49
    The Ashen Witness​                           49


                                                 1
     The Grey Cloaks​                          51
     The Gilded Hart​                          53
     The Veilward Enclave​                     55
Skills​                                        57
     Information Skills​                       58
     Open Skills​                              59
     Headers​                                  61
Magic​                                        124
     Gaining Magic​                           124
     Spell Types​                             126
Regions​                                      135
     Virelle​                                 135
     The Kingdom of Soleilmarche​             135
     The Concord​                             136
     The Dominion of Thrymvale​               136
     The Kingdom of Roses​                    137
     The Grand Unity of Calvarezzo​           137
The Faith of the Sol Road​                    139
     Orders of the Sol Road​                  139
Domicile Enhancements​                        141
     Overview​                                141
     Guidelines for Enhancements​             141
     Enhancement Categories​                  141
     Staying Off-site​                        142
     Tenting​                                 142
     Domicile Membership​                     142
     Enhancement Effects​                     142
     Auras​                                   143
Faction Maintenance​                          144
     Overview​                                144
     Standard Maintenance​                    144
     Extra Maintenance​                       144
     Consequences of Non-Payment​             145
Transmutation​                                146
     Ritual Mat​                              146
     Performing the Ritual​                   147
Death, Resurrection, and the Vaelion Doors​   151
     The Vaelion Doors​                       151
     The Writ of the Vaelion Door​            152
     Corruption Magics and Undeath​           152



                                                2
                            CORE ACCELERANT RULES
You are preparing to enter a game world using the Accelerant system. The system is designed to be
simple in concept and execution, yet have a rich and varied set of skills and abilities with which to
develop characters and stories. To do this we have created a set of Core Rules that defines all of the
effects of the game and presents them to you within the first chapter of the rule book. All skills and
special abilities refer back to these Core Rules, so once you have learned the Core Rules you know how
to react to effects from any Accelerant game, even though the skills or abilities that allow a character to
use those effects may be very different.

Rules of Etiquette
In an activity as fluid and full of unexpected circumstances as live action games, it is important that each
player attempt to follow the spirit as well as the letter of the rules. Although we have tried to create a
set of rules that is as cut and dry as possible, there are certain rules that are difficult or impossible to
quantify that are necessary to promote atmosphere or safety. These rules are marked as Rules of
Etiquette. These rules are difficult or impossible to quantify. We know this, and if players abuse them or
become less than graceful when using them the game will suffer. We trust the player to follow the intent
of the rules, and to be particularly careful to be graceful when dealing with Rules of Etiquette.

Rule of Etiquette
The first rule of etiquette is that abusive language or actions are not tolerated, whether they are in game
or not. Language or actions that are derogatory or that are deemed to be harassment are not allowed.
References to explicit sexual behavior or concepts, particularly violent ones, are not allowed. In game
threats should be worded so they are clearly in game.

Game Actions
The system is designed to keep the game running as smoothly and fluidly as possible. The game takes
place in a site full of props, buildings, and other players. The rules define how you interact with the
environment and other players. The game has removed actions and effects players cannot actually
perform from the gameplay. There are no creatures stepping through solid walls, no flying creatures, and
no activities that cannot be played without interrupting the flow of the game. Characters that step into
rifts and turn to spirit, or characters that die and rise as spirits are still visible as they walk off. You cannot
attempt actions such as chopping up bodies or breaking down doors that cannot be performed for
logistical or safety reasons.

Always In Game
Players stay in game and in character from the start of the event to its end. There is no "out of game"
except during emergencies. There are no out of game indicators such as white headbands, and no
people should be wandering about unless they are there in the actual game. The idea is to keep the
game flowing so players can stay in character and be immersed in the story. If you have a question,
attempt to word it and ask it in game. If you feel you must leave game, walk to the edge of the game
area in character and leave the game for a time. You should never interrupt the flow of the game.
The system is also designed to minimize the times where you cannot act on what you see, hear and feel.
You are always in game, even if your character is unconscious, dead, or affected by a game condition that


                                                                                                                 3
incapacitates you. Your spirit still remains with you, and it can experience the game world around you.
You do not need to pretend you did not experience the game even under these conditions. If your eyes
are closed then you might not see what is going on, but you will remember everything you hear, smell,
and feel. Your character also will realize this and knows that sometimes dead men do tell tales.
There is no information that is out of game. If you don’t want other players to know something in game,
don’t talk about it out of game. Keep your in game secrets to yourself, and if you talk out of game about
something other players can decide they learned that information in game if they feel that the
conversation unfairly inflicts knowledge upon them they did not want to know. If you want in game
secrets, keep out of game secrets.
The only caveat is that sometimes players experienced with a game play different characters altogether.
Perhaps you have lost a previous character to death and are playing a new character. Perhaps, as a
change of pace, you are participating as a non-player character or you are playing a plot character for a
time. If you play a different character, creature, or plot role within the same game world we ask you do
not transfer anything you learn to other characters.
To keep the game flowing as smoothly as possible, we have defined the following ways to deal with
problems and interruptions.

Caution
This phrase indicates some condition that may threaten the health of a player. A caution should never
last more than 10 seconds. It indicates that those people who are close to or involved in that problem
should pause so someone can get clear, get up, or move away from a threat. Only those people nearby
need pause until the problem resolves. Everyone involved in a caution is still responsible to the game,
and should still be cautious of in game threats. They may move away from the Caution or pause until the
person has dealt with the problem.

Clarification
This phrase works like Caution, but it indicates that someone needs a quick explanation of what
happened. People directly involved pause for up to three seconds while someone repeats a verbal or
quickly indicates a condition or result of something. This should be used infrequently, if ever. It is present
for new players who may be overwhelmed and confused during their first game or two.

Let Me Clarify
This phrase, which can only be used by plot approved non-player characters, indicates that any
encounter information that follows should be considered true. There are times when your character may
not trust another character. This phrase indicates that the information that the character, trustworthy or
not, will impart is important and true information about how some specific encounter works. This phrase
cannot be used unless the player has plot approval for that specific encounter, and the information
imparted must be a clarification of some specific game effect or encounter.

Emergency
This phrase should come up rarely. This means that there is some medical emergency that needs
attention. The game play stops, and everyone who hears the emergency should drop to a knee to
indicate that a real problem exists. Emergency should only be called is there is a real problem and
someone could be hurt.




                                                                                                             4
Safety Restrictions
There are several basic safety restrictions in the Accelerant system to ensure the safety, comfort, and
enjoyment of all.

No Physical Contact
You have no reason to touch another player in the Accelerant system. Physical contact is not allowed.
You may contact another player with a boffer weapon in a legal attack area and you may contact another
player by touching a packet to their arm or shoulder to deliver a "touch cast" effect. Violators will be
asked to leave the game.

Searching a Character
Because the game does not allow physical contact, you may not physically search someone else. Instead
you approach within searching distance, role play the searching motion with both hands held out above
their body, and tell them in a low voice "I am searching you." You may have items in your off hand during
this process, but may not block with weapons. The player reveals items you have found. The player may
make a pouch available for you to reach into and take items.

Search For…
Some skills can give you the ability to use a special searching effect on a dead or helpless creature after
you have finished your normal search. This searching attempt is represented by the verbal "Search for
<Item Type>" where the item type is specified in the skill. You cannot use this effect unless you have a
skill or ability that allows you to do so. Using a skill with this Search effect might reveal additional items,
or it might trigger a response effect targeted on you. The Search effect is the name for the special search
attempt, and the Search response is a resulting effect the targeted character calls out when you search
them.
As an example, after you search an elemental you might have a skill that allows you to call out "With
elemental harvesting, Search for True Elements." That NPC might give up additional items, it might reply
"You find nothing," or it might even use a counter effect such as "Refresh 1 Fire." If searching some
creatures is dangerous, the creature might even reply with a detrimental search response.
It is also possible for games to create skills that let you use a defense against some or all search
responses.

Carrying a Character
Because the game does not allow physical contact, you may not physically carry or drag another person.
Instead you simply tell the person you are picking them up and role play carrying them along. They must
get up and walk with you while you pretend to hold their shoulders. You cannot move faster than a walk
while carrying someone else. If you are unable to move while being carried you walk with your head
bowed and arms at your sides.
If you are carrying a character and that character is struck by an effect from a melee, missile, or packet
attack that is not beneficial, you will also take that effect unless you "drop" the character immediately. If
you are being carried and someone "drops" you then you role play falling to the ground. If you are being
carried, you must role play an effect with a moan or grunt even if you are paralyzed or dead to indicate
you have been struck. If you are carrying someone who role plays an effect, and you do not know what



                                                                                                              5
the effect was, you must drop them. You may pick up a body after dropping it as soon as that body stops
moving.

Rule of Etiquette
Whenever you are required to role play an effect you must always do so in a safe manner. If you must
adjust your role play or position slightly to make the game safer for you or another player we ask you to
do so. You should take care before moving in crowded areas even if you must play out the effect in a
slightly different manner. You are encouraged to take the extra step or two when playing out an effect if
it removes you from an area that is detrimental to your health such as a puddle or an area with too many
other players.

No Alcohol or Drugs
You cannot consume alcohol or drugs on the premises of the game unless the drugs are for medical use.
You cannot be under the influence of these while on the premises of the game. Violators will be asked to
leave the game. If any drug or substance appears to inhibit a player’s judgement a staff reserves the right
to ask that player to rest, away from the action, or to leave the game.

Rules Restrictions
As you play the game and wander around the world, there is a lot you can do to affect the game
environment around you. Conversely, there are lots of effects that can change how you play the game,
for both good and bad. Other characters may attempt to inflict unpleasant fates upon you, and you
might attempt to do the same to them.
There are three restrictions on your activities.
The first is an environmental restriction. When you come across props that represent certain
environments, such as tarp walls representing solid walls, you must play as if that condition was real. You
cannot move tarp walls, you cannot walk across black pits, and you cannot enter areas marked out of
game.
The second is an effect restriction. If an effect has been inflicted upon you, you must abide by the
restriction of that effect until it is removed. If you have a Slow effect you cannot run. If you have the
Maim effect you cannot use the maimed limb. Effects can be inflicted upon you in a variety of ways.
The third is a skill restriction. If there is a skill that specifically allows you to manipulate a prop or
perform some action, you cannot attempt to perform that action or manipulate that prop unless you
have that skill. You cannot pick up weapons and try to fight unless you have the skill to do so. You cannot
manipulate traps unless you have the skill to do, although you can attempt to avoid them.

Prop Restrictions
You are not allowed to bring to an event any prop that resembles or could be mistaken for common or
unique game items provided by plot without the express permission of the game staff. You cannot
attempt to duplicate or forge game money, item props, tags, or logistical documents such as character or
monster cards. Any attempt to use in game means to create fakes of any items must be approved by the
plot committee.




                                                                                                            6
You are not allowed to break, destroy, or take apart any prop. If a prop is attached to a wall by a chain,
for example, you cannot attempt to break or detach that chain in any way. The Destroy effect does not
change the basic structure of a prop; it just makes the item unusable for any game related purpose.
Most props have no in game worth. Costuming, jewelry, weapons, and area props cannot be moved from
the area they are placed in except by the owner. These props provide no in game benefit and disallowing
their removal ensures these props are not broken or lost. Props may be handled but must be put back
where they are found unless they have a sticker.
Small circular stickers indicate special rules about handling an item. If an item has a red circle, it cannot
be moved at all. It cannot be picked up or touched. It will not move. If an item has a yellow or green
sticker, it seems to be valuable. A small, yellow, circular sticker means the prop may be taken but it must
be turned in at checkout. A small green circular sticker means you can take the prop and hold on to it.
Special items may also have a red sticker with a rune or number on it. These stickers indicate that
characters may not pick up or touch the item unless they have a skill or ability that allows them to
manipulate objects marked by that symbol or number.
Items may also be marked by attaching a short green, yellow, or red ribbon to indicate the item's in game
status. These ribbons replace the sticker and have the same meaning. A ribbon can be used to mark
small items that don't have room for a sticker, such as rings, or on items where plot feels that a ribbon
would look better or be more evident to the players. This ribbon may have codes or markings on it in the
same manner that stickers can have markings for players with specific skills to recognize.
Some game effects will enhance an object such as a weapon or a piece of armor. When an item has been
enhanced by a game effect, an effect sticker will be placed upon it so long as the enhancement is in
place. Items with effect stickers are treated as though they were yellow sticker items. If you have an
effect sticker upon your weapon, that prop can be stolen from you. You should bring back up props if you
want to use item enhancements.

Game Environment
Games take place at a site, usually a campground. This site defines the boundaries of the game. During
game play, a player may attempt to enter any area within the game boundaries unless the area is marked
with a yellow information sign. Areas marked with information signs are either special areas with
additional rules described by the sign or they are out of game and impassable.

Out of Game Areas
Areas that are out of game are marked by the yellow or hazard orange signs with text marking it Out of
Game. You may not enter these areas. The text of the sign indicates why, in game, this area cannot be
entered. Some areas might be described as collapsed and ruined piles of rubble that have no real
interior. Other areas might be marked as impassable swamp.

Special Areas
Areas with special restrictions or rules will be marked by the yellow or hazard orange signs with game
information printed on it. This sign will have game information written upon it that will describe the
circumstances that make the area special.



                                                                                                             7
Gates
Portals ringed with strings of decorative light are magical portals. These portals lead to other places.
Some lead to other places in this world, some lead to places beyond this world. If a portal is ringed with
lights and they are not lit then you cannot go through that portal.
The areas beyond gates are often marked with yellow information signs, so you should always look
around after going through a gate. Gates have a disorienting effect to compensate for the time it takes to
spot and read a yellow sign.
White gates are open portals. If the lights are on, anyone may step through the gate. White gates will
always appear in ruined areas.
Colored gates are special. Only special staff characters that control the gate may bring you through a gate
with colored lights. If there is no guide you cannot enter the gate. Some colored gates are free standing,
with no actual area on the other side. If you enter such a gate at the request of a staff character then you
will become a spirit. You will not be affected by any attacks and you must reply "Spirit" to any attack that
strikes you. You cannot use any game skills or converse with any one else. You are visible to others, but
you cannot converse with them and you can only enter an area indicated by the spirit guide who leads
you. You must follow the spirit guide until you exit through another gate and your guide indicates you
have assumed your normal form.

Turn Back Markers
Some games have locations in a game site that are normally accessible to players, but are sometimes
closed for specific encounters or modules. While this is usually handled with yellow information signs, it
is often difficult to spot and read information signs without entering the encounter area to read them,
especially at night. To make this easier, areas can be marked with circular information signs (rather than
the usual octagonal signs) and at night these signs are lit with circular rings created with looped glow
bracelets. If you spot these Turn Back Markers hanging in the area, it means that the area is inaccessible
and you should stay away unless you are led to the area by a spirit, a scout, or a similar guide.
It is often left to the player to explain why they cannot proceed when they spot Turn Back Markers. One
common reason is that the area ahead is an impassable swamp. Another is that a mist has risen and
players cannot find their way through the area. Sometimes players simply state that the area ahead looks
uninteresting and turn back. It is left to you and your companions to come up with a plausible reason
that you cannot proceed when you spot a Turn Back Marker.

Combat
During the course of the game, you can be the subject of a wide variety of attacks. Each attack will
attempt to inflict an effect upon you. Some effects can benefit you, and some will deliver unpleasant
effects upon you. Each attack has a verbal that describes what the attack does and a delivery that
determines how the attack is used against the target.

Verbals
A verbal is a short phrase that is called out when an ability is used to explain the effect of that attack.
Each verbal can have an effect and a trait for that attack. The trait indicates the flavor of the attack so



                                                                                                              8
you may role play the effects and perhaps use a defense to negate the attack if it strikes you. The effect
indicates what the attack does to you.
A verbal is an out of game phrase. You must call your verbal even if you are affected by Silence. If you
hear the beginning of a verbal you must listen to the phrase and play out the effect.
Verbals for melee attacks are called out as you swing your weapon. Verbals for missile and packet attacks
are called out before you release the projectile from your hand. You call out a phrase that takes the form
of [Effect] by [Trait]. For example, a poison that freezes you in place would use the verbal "Paralyze by
Poison" and a bolt of fire that causes 5 points of damage would use "5 Damage by Fire" as the verbal.
If you hear a verbal, your character knows what happened. The verbal not only tells you the effect out of
game, but it represents the sight, sound and feel of the attack in game. You never have to play it dumb.
The verbal "4 Damage by Fire" might represent a roar of flame. The verbal "Maim by Lightning" might
represent a flash of light. The verbal "Paralyze by Fear" might represent the hairs rising on the back of
your neck. However you imagine it, the verbal tells you what happened both in and out of game.
Verbals should not be confused with incantations. Incantations are magical words that are used to cast a
spell. These are in game magical phrases that are required for all but the most powerful mages to cast
magic. Spells usually have incantations, but they also end with a verbal. Remember that there are two
rules that apply to all called attacks.

• You must finish the verbal for a called attack before launching a packet or missile attack. You call out
the verbal as you swing a melee attack. If there is an incantation, which is an in game phrase associated
with an attack, then that must be clearly spoken before the verbal. This is true for melee, missile and
packet attacks.
• All called hits must be acknowledged with role play. Many skills are consumed only if the recipient calls
out a defense or role-plays the effects of the attack. If you don't role play the effect, the attacker may
assume that you were not struck and the skill not used.

Traits
A trait is a label that is given to a character, an attack, a defense, or an item. Traits help describe the
flavor of game effects and define how abilities interact with each other. There are four types of traits. A
character trait is any trait that is somehow given to a character. An attack trait is added to an attack
verbal and defines the flavor of that attack. A defense trait is added to a defense call. An item trait is
added to a tagged item and gives that trait to anyone carrying that item.
An attack trait tells you which defenses can be used against that attack. A character or item trait can be
used to determine if certain effects worked against you. If you had the “Undead” trait, for example, then
an attack that caused "5 Damage to Undead" would be effective against you. A defense trait is generally
used for flavor, but it is possible to have skills or abilities that can be used only if a defense with an
appropriate trait is used.
A character's heritage is always considered a trait. Characters with no explicit heritage have the Solari
trait. If you have a sub-heritage then both your sub-heritage and your general heritage will be considered
to be traits. So a Rose Elf has the Elf trait as well as the Rose Elf trait.



                                                                                                              9
Deliveries
Each ability must be delivered to its target in some way. These deliveries are the physical action needed
to determine whether an ability has been successfully used on an opponent.
There are several different ways to deliver game effects, but there are three basic attack deliveries that
are used most often in combat. Melee attacks are delivered with a successful strike with a hand held
weapon. Packet attacks are delivered by throwing a bean bag like projectile and striking an opponent.
Missile attacks are delivered by throwing or firing a special foam weapon prop, although some games
use packet based arrows and bolts that are firing by aiming a missile weapon prop at an enemy and then
throwing a packet prop and striking that opponent with the projectile.
It is always up to the defender to make the final decision whether an ability has struck or affected them,
and thus whether the ability has been delivered. It is important that players do not abuse this honor
system. If a player does not count legal hits, the game breaks down. Individuals that are reported for not
counting hits will be reviewed and if necessary asked to leave the game.

Melee Attacks
Melee attacks require special hand held padded weapons to deliver an attack. Melee weapons cannot be
thrown. You must have both hands on a two handed weapon in order to use it in combat unless some
game ability specifically states otherwise. These padded weapons have a strict set of creation rules and
must pass a safety inspection at each and every event where you intend to use them.
To add to the atmosphere of role playing, we expect our players to role play in combat. Although we
allow light weapons for safety and comfort, we ask that players keep the pace of their swings in line with
what a heavier weapon might require. Melee swings that are entirely generated by snapping or rotating
the wrist or forearm are discouraged. Although you are expected to role play full weapon swings where
the weapon moves at least 45 degrees, the actual contact cannot be too hard. A tap from a weapon is
sufficient to deliver an attack. Melee attacks that are blocked by another weapon or shield wielded by a
character with the appropriate skill to do so are not counted. Attacks to the head and neck, the hands, or
the groin are illegal and are not counted.
If you are unskilled with a melee weapon you cannot make attacks with that weapon. If someone strikes
that weapon or you try to parry with that weapon, you must either take the blow or the weapon is
ripped from your hand. If you do not take the blow, you must drop the weapon as if you had been
affected by the Disarm effect.
You may hold only one weapon or shield in your hand during combat. If you are holding more than one
item in a hand, and a melee attack strikes one of those items, then you will take the blow or be disarmed
of both items as if you were unskilled in their use.
A melee attack that has no verbal causes 1 point of damage. These are known as "uncalled attacks.” If an
uncalled attack removes your last point of Vitality you will fall unconscious but you will remain stable as
described in the Vitality section below. A melee attack with a verbal is known as a “called attack.” A
successful attack delivers the effect in the verbal to the recipient.
Skills and abilities that allow you to use called melee attacks are only used up, as a default, if the attack
strikes a legal target area and the recipient acknowledges the hit by role playing the effect or calling out



                                                                                                            10
a defense to negate the attack. The melee attack is not used up if the attack misses or the target blocks
the attack with a weapon or a shield.
Some skills work only on limb hits. A limb hit is a strike to the arm or leg. A torso hit includes the chest
from the belt up to the top of the chest. Any hit to the leg or buttock is a leg hit. Any hit to the arm or to
the outer shoulder is an arm hit. Hits that come down on the shoulder or that come down between the
shoulder and the neck are also arm hits.

The Flurry Rule
A flurry is a series of melee swings delivered at an enemy in combat with little or no pause. You can make
no more than three consecutive attacks against a particular enemy where your weapon contacts an
opponent or their weapons, including their shield, before you must reset. To reset your flurry you must
step out of weapon range between you and your opponent and stop all attacks on your previous target
for at least a second.
Players pursuing enemies need not interrupt pursuit by stepping back to reset their Flurry. The pursuer
needs only to pause for a second while at a distance just within their maximum weapon range.
That's all you need to remember, everything else are clarifications and answers for specific questions.
    ●​ Blocked swings that contact a weapon or shield and successful hits that contact the body are
       counted as flurry swings. Feints and swings that do not make contact against weapons, shield, or
       body do not count as a flurry swing. You must reset your flurry after you have made three swings
       with contact before resuming attacks on that opponent.
    ●​ An opponent can't try to prevent you from resetting your flurry by advancing. If you have
       retreated in an attempt to get out of weapon range but your opponent's advance has prevented
       you from doing so then you may reset your flurry after a full second pause.
    ●​ Incidental weapon contact and aggressively engaging an opponent's weapon with beat attacks or
       offensive parries can make flurry determination confusing. We realize it is difficult to determine
       if these types of weapon maneuvers count as a strike in a flurry. As a Rule of Etiquette, if both
       your elbow and the weapon tip move forward and contact an opponent's weapon then count
       that as one of your flurry strikes even if it was not your intention to launch an attack. This might
       mean that both combatants use up a Flurry swing during incidental weapon contact.

The Proximity Rule
You must maintain a safe distance from any active opponent. If you can reach out and touch the torso of
an opponent with your hand then you are too close and you must back away. If there is a significant
difference in the reach of two opponents, the opponent with the shorter reach may approach close
enough so that they can strike their opponent with their weapon so long as they cannot touch the torso
of the opponent.

Claws and Natural Weaponry
Some characters have the ability to use claws or natural weaponry instead of, or in addition to, weapons.
These weapon props are red, though some plot creatures may have props that are constructed to appear
to be part of that creature.




                                                                                                            11
Claws are considered to be melee weapons and can be used to block melee attacks. Claws are not
affected by Disarm. Destroy effects delivered to such weaponry will cause a Maim effect to the limb
using the weapon.
Claws and natural weaponry are not bladed weapons, and cannot be used with skills or effects that
require bladed weapons. If you are holding a claw that is struck by a melee or missile attack, and you
cannot legally block with the claw due to some game effect, you will be affected by the attack since you
cannot drop the claw in response to the strike.

Packet Attacks
A packet is a small bean bag filled with bird seed that represents some sort of mystical, psychic, or
supernatural ranged attack form. Packets have strict construction guidelines. You call a verbal and throw
a packet at a target to deliver the attack. If the packet hits the target, or any direct possession of the
target, then the effect is delivered to the target. You cannot throw packets too hard. If you are winding
up to throw the packet, then you are throwing too hard.
Packets are not solid objects and cannot be affected by Disarm or Destroy, but they are a visible, in game
effect. If someone is carrying packets and you see the packets, you can assume they have some sort of
aura that makes you realize they are capable of something special. Because of this, you cannot carry or
throw packets unless you have the power to use them for something.
If a packet clearly strikes a target and they do not acknowledge the hit with role play or by negating it
with a defense, the attributes or their equivalent are not exhausted. If the packet misses, or you cannot
tell whether the packet hit, then attributes or resources are exhausted normally.
To deliver a packet attack, the arm that is delivering the packet must be free and the hand empty except
for the packet itself. A free arm cannot have props tucked under it or tied to it other than armor. You
cannot deliver packet attacks if you cannot use game skills, or with an arm that is affected by something
that prevents its use such as a Maim effect or shackles. Some packet based skills have additional
requirements as well.
Packet attacks cannot be used while you are being hit. Successful melee attacks interrupt your ability to
throw packet attacks, forcing you to wait for one full second before attempting to throw again. It is
impossible to get off packet attacks during the Flurry pause. Missile and packet attacks will also interrupt
your verbal if they land while you are speaking it, but you may begin a new verbal immediately and do
not have to wait for one second in these cases. An interrupted ability is not used up and attributes or
their equivalent are not wasted, but you must begin the verbal again.
Like melee attacks, any packet attack that has no verbal causes 1 point of damage. Packet attacks with no
verbal are "uncalled strikes" and cause someone to fall unconscious but stable when they reduce Vitality
to zero. Packet attacks that use called damage effects cause enemies to become unstable when they fall
unconscious just like called melee attacks.

Rule of Etiquette
In order to encourage the use of good costuming and add a little more realism, we have the Costume
Rule. If a packet attack clearly misses a target and passes by the body, yet that packet hits a cloak or
costuming piece after it has gone past, the defender can call out "costume." This rule cannot be used if
the costuming is in front of the defender or if the packet has not already passed the body. The rule is in
place to encourage cloaks, back banners, and some directed character costuming such as wings without
adding an unacceptable disadvantage to the character in combat.



                                                                                                          12
Concentrate
Concentrate is a special plot verbal that indicates the caster who called it can throw packet attacks while
being hit. The caster calls out Concentrate and can throw a number of follow up packet attacks, including
spells, while being hit by incoming attacks. You do not have to call Concentrate before every spell; one
call covers a number of attacks. Each skill or special ability that allows the use of Concentrate requires
you to call out "Concentrate" when you use it.

Rule of Etiquette
If a character using Concentrate is in a swirling fight where new combatants are coming into fighting
range, then the caster should call out "Concentrate" each time they willingly switch targets so everyone
in the fight knows what is going on.

Missile Attacks (Packet)
For many games, missile attacks typically use packets that represent arrows or crossbow bolts. To
differentiate missile attacks from normal packet attacks, the attacker has two additional requirements
when attacking. First, you must have a prop in your free hand that is aimed at the target. Second, you
must go through a firing motion for each missile attack. Bows require you to make a drawing motion and
bring the packet to your cheek before throwing. Crossbows require that you pull the packet along the
stock of the crossbow and pull it up to aim. After your motion you throw the attack while still pointing at
the target with your free hand.
Although this system is typically used for bows and crossbows, games can use this system for thrown
weapons, wands, or other ranged attacks that can be, in that setting, blocked with weapons or shields.
Like melee attacks, any missile attack that has no verbal causes 1 point of damage. Missile attacks with
no verbal are "uncalled strikes" and cause someone to fall unconscious but stable when they reduce
Vitality to zero. Missile weapons that use called damage effects cause enemies to become unstable when
they fall unconscious just like called melee attacks.
Like packet attacks, missile weapons cannot be used while you are being hit by a melee weapon unless
you have the ability to use the Concentrate ability as described above.
Some skills that allow you to use a weapon or shield to block melee attacks also allow that defender to
block missile attacks.

Missile Attacks (Props)
Some games require special props for missile attacks. Foam balls for arrows and bolts, foam thrown
weapons, nerf arrows, and other non-packet systems are possible in Accelerant games. Foam balls used
as arrows or bolts require the attacker to point the launcher or implement at the target as described
when using missile attacks with packets. Foam thrown weapons only need to be thrown at the target.
Other missile props such as nerf bows, are aimed and fired when they are used.
Foam weapons are always blockable by those skilled with weapons or shields in a manner similar to
melee attacks. Like melee attacks, any foam missile attack that has no verbal causes 1 point of damage.
Missile attacks with no verbal are "uncalled strikes" and cause someone to fall unconscious but stable
when they reduce Vitality to zero. Missile weapons that use called damage effects cause enemies to
become unstable when they fall unconscious just like called melee attacks.




                                                                                                          13
Touch Delivery
If a skill or ability is delivered with a touch, then the effect is delivered by touching a packet to the
shoulder or arm of a willing or helpless recipient.

Beneficial Effects
Effects that are intended to aid, bolster, or benefit a character are marked as Beneficial effects. If, for
some reason, the recipient does not want to receive the benefit of one of these effects they may say
“Refuse” to negate the attack or delivery.

Special Attacks
Special attacks are delivered in unusual ways rather than using the regular melee, missile, and packet
combat system. They represent large-scale effects and atmospheric conditions. Special attacks always
begin with the person or area that the attack affects, and that is followed by a verbal. If you have a
defense that works against the verbal of a special attack, you can use it to negate that attack. Once the
verbal of these attacks have begun, the effect is already delivered. You cannot, for example, retroactively
turn to a spirit during the verbal to negate it. The individual types are detailed below.

Affliction
Someone delivers an effect to your immobile or unconscious form by touching a weapon or packet to
your torso and stating "Affliction One, Affliction Two, Affliction Three" clearly and slowly, followed by a
verbal. This works like a Death Strike and can be interrupted in the same manner as a Death Strike. The
verbal may be a standard effect, or it may deliver an Inflict effect in which case the player will give you an
effect card.

Gaze
Someone who has met your gaze for a full three seconds calls out or whispers, "By My Gaze…" followed
by a verbal. A vampire might whisper, "By My Gaze, Paralyze by Will." Other creatures might cause fear
or other effects.

Gesture
Someone points at you with a hand or a weapon and calls out, “By My Gesture…” followed by a verbal.
If the effect has a duration that is not instantaneous, then instead of the normal duration, the effect lasts
so long as they point at you.

Name
Someone calls out "By Your Name," states your name, part of your name, or some pseudonym that you
have used and calls out a verbal. The attack is delivered to you if you recognize that name as a name you
have used or a name that person might use to refer to you. Basically if you know they are talking about
you then you take the effect.

Room
Someone calls out "In This Room" and an effect and everyone in that room will be affected by it.
Doorways and gates act as room dividers. This delivery is commonly used for traps and performances.
The attack only works in an enclosed room with normal doorways and corridors leaving it. The attack will
affect you if any part of you is within the room when the verbal is called.

                                                                                                              14
Search Response
Someone calls out an effect after you search them or use a special Search effect upon them. If multiple
people are currently searching a creature (for some reason) then all searching characters take the effect.

Voice
Someone calls out "By My Voice" and an effect and everyone who hears it will be affected by it. You
cannot defend against Voice attacks by intentionally obscuring the sound of the verbal with loud noise or
by plugging your ears.

Vitality
Vitality is a count of how much damage you can take before you collapse. As you take damage, your
Vitality points are exhausted. These points can never drop below zero. Healing refreshes Vitality, and
these points are also refreshed at the beginning of each event. If your Vitality ever reaches zero you will
collapse and become unconscious. Unconscious characters that are taken down by uncalled melee or
missile hits are stable. Characters taken down by any other kind of damage, from called melee or missile
hits, from firearms, from traps, from packets, or from anything with a verbal become unstable.
If you fall unconscious but you are stable, you will remain unconscious for five minutes. After that time
you will wake up with 1 point of Vitality. If someone hits you with an attack for called damage while you
are unconscious and stable you will become unstable and begin your 1 minute count. Other effects can
be inflicted upon you while you are unconscious and stable and those effects will still be active when you
wake up. If healing raises your Vitality above 0 then you will become conscious. A death strike
successfully delivered to your torso will kill you.
If you are unconscious and you are unstable you are dying from blood loss and shock. You will linger for
one minute before dying. A Stabilize effect will change your condition to stable and you will begin your 5
minute count. Other effects can be inflicted upon you while you are unstable and those effects will still
be active if you wake up. If healing raises your Vitality above 0 then you will become conscious. A death
strike successfully delivered to your torso will kill you. If someone begins to use First Aid on you, your
count will be suspended until they stop the First Aid. If they call Stabilize you become stable and start
your five minute count. If they do not finish the First Aid, your one minute death count will continue
where it was before they started using the skill.
When you die, all active effects on your person end unless an Imbue or Inflict effect specifically says
otherwise on the effect card. Your remains will linger for five minutes before you change to a spirit of the
dead and begin to walk to the Vaelion Doors. Only effects with "to Spirit" or with "to Dead" traits will
affect a spirit of the dead.

Unconscious
You are incapacitated and must collapse to the ground. You must close your eyes and you cannot move
or speak while you are unconscious. You cannot use game skills unless a skill explicitly explains that it can
be used while unconscious.




                                                                                                          15
Rule of Etiquette
Players who are unconscious close to combat may open their eyes to watch for out of game danger if the
battle moves too close. It is important for players to be able to protect themselves during these times. If
you open your eyes for safety reasons then we ask that anything you see during that time remain outside
the normal knowledge of the game.

Death
There are four ways you can die in this game. First, you can be knocked unconscious and unstable and
remain that way for a full minute. This is referred to as "bleeding out" and is described above. Second,
you can be killed if someone delivers a successful death strike to your torso. Third, You will be killed by
an attack with a Death effect that you cannot negate. Finally, special areas might cause your death if you
have a mishap.

Death Strike
A death strike is used to kill an unconscious or immobile victim. You must touch a weapon to the torso of
the victim while saying "Death strike one, death strike two, death strike three". This verbal must be
spoken clearly and at a normal speaking pace. You do not need to have skill with the weapon to inflict a
death strike.
To inflict a death strike, the victim must be unmoving. The victim can be unconscious or unmoving
because of a game effect, but you cannot inflict a death strike on a body until it comes to rest after an
attack, nor can you inflict a death strike on a helpless but struggling victim. If the victim can move, the
victim can prevent a death strike. First you must render the victim unconscious or unmoving, and then
you may inflict a death strike.
To interrupt a death strike, you must strike the person attempting to deliver the death strike with a
melee, missile or packet attack. You may also interrupt the death strike by striking the weapon used to
perform the death strike with a weapon of your own. You do not have to force the weapon away. A
death strike that is interrupted is canceled and has no effect.

The "Death" Effect
Any effect that successfully inflicts a Death effect kills you immediately. Of all the various game effects,
only the Death effect will kill you outright. The Death effect may be nullified by an appropriate defense.

Mishaps
There might be large scale traps, challenges, and mishaps in special areas that can cause you to perish if
you are unfortunate enough to stumble into them. Closing walls, deep pits, and other deadly traps might
kill you outright. These areas will be marked or made clear to you during the course of the game.

Spirits Of The Dead
After 5 minutes of death, a dead character becomes a spirit of the dead. Your spirit and everything you
still carry is drawn to a special area of the game marked as a Death area. Your spirit will even pick up
your own weapons if they are within reach unless someone else possesses them. When you rise as a
spirit you must proceed directly to the Death area. You must walk with your head bowed and your arms
at your side. You cannot interact with any other character unless they use an ability that allows you to do


                                                                                                              16
so. You cannot drop items. You cannot use any game ability. If someone tries to interact with you, reply
"Spirit" and continue on your way.
While you are a spirit of the dead, there are very few effects that will work on you. The only effects that
will work are effects with "to Spirit" or "to Dead" in the verbal. These are Bane effects specifically
designed to affect spirits. The most common is a "Speak to Dead" effect. This type of "Speak" effect will
allow you to converse quietly with the character who used the effect. You cannot stray from your path or
use any game skill while talking. You are not compelled to communicate, but you may do so. Other
effects might include "Imbue to Spirit" and "Inflict to Spirit." If the description on the effect card states
that it works on a spirit of the dead then you must follow the instructions given therein. You may use
Resist and Purge defenses while you are a spirit of the dead if they are appropriate for an attack that
strikes or affects you.

Final Death
If the spirit cannot return from the Death area then the character passes beyond this world and is said to
have taken a final death. Final death means that you can no longer play the character in question, and
adds an air of danger to the game by threatening your in game persona.

Attack Effects
The effect of an attack describes how that attack benefits or impairs you. The effect is the first part of
any verbal. Some effects target items rather than characters. Each effect has a duration, but curing or
removing that effect will end it.

Game Time
As the game progresses during an event, players generally spend time interacting with other characters,
moving from place to place, and engaging in combat and other game activities. Some skills or game
effects require a specific passage of time as a requirement of their use or removal. Players are expected
to count out this time. This counted time is spent either to Rest or to Focus.
Time spent to rest or focus is interrupted if you use a game skill. This includes making an attack or
blocking an attack with a weapon or shield. Spending time to rest or focus must be obvious to those
observing you; you cannot spend time, for example, to rest or focus if you are standing in a combat
stance or otherwise appear to be participating in active combat.
When spending time as a requirement of using game skills, interruptions require you to begin the
process at the start but these interruptions don't generally exhaust the costs of using the skill or ability
unless that ability explicitly says otherwise in its description. If you begin, for example, to Focus for one
minute to use a skill which can only be used once per event, or which uses an attribute point, the skill or
attribute is not generally used up if you are interrupted while trying to use the skill.
Many games have a set of skills or attributes that can be refreshed when you have a chance to rest.
Some games also define skills or resets that require you to be within a safe zone, workshop, haven, or
sanctuary while you focus or rest. This prevents you from using these resets or skills while you are out in
the field or away from these areas.

Rest
Resting involves spending time out of action where you have a chance to regain your energy and
composure. Rest requires you to be sitting, lying, or kneeling. It must be obvious that you are resting.


                                                                                                             17
You cannot walk or run. You can interact with those nearby while resting. You are resting if you are dead,
paralyzed, stunned, or unconscious. Paralyzed characters are resting even if they are standing or in some
other paralyzed position.
Resting is not generally interrupted by game effects, regardless of delivery. Although you cannot use
optional defenses without interrupting your rest, calling out mandatory defenses does not interrupt rest.
Calling out "Spirit," "No Effect," "Guard," "Elude," or "Shield," for example, would not interrupt rest
unless the specifics of the skill or ability you were using somehow made the call optional.

Rule of Etiquette
Players with bad knees or physical impairments may be given plot permission to stand with their arms
raised and their hands behind their head to indicate they are resting on the field.
Effects which require rest can overlap; what this means is that a single rest time can be used for multiple
effects. If you had a game skill that allowed you to reset some kind of magical defense after a minute of
rest, and you were affected by a Root effect, and you were affected by a Weakness effect you could rest
for five minutes and apply the time to all three benefits. The Root would end, the Weakness would end,
and the skill could be used to reset the defense.
Game skills will instruct you by saying "Rest for," followed by a time period, followed by the results of the
rest.
"Rest for one minute to end this effect."
"Rest for ten seconds and call out "Heal 2 to Self" to use this skill.

You Are Well Rested
If you are in the process of resting, particularly when resetting skills or attributes, and a game character
tells you "You Are Well Rested" then your rest time is considered completed. Effects that end with rest
are removed, and attributes and skills that require rest are refreshed. This will not end Imbue or Inflict
effects, or effects that last for an entire event or more. If a reset has, in addition to the rest time, costs
associated with it then you are still responsible for paying those costs to gain the benefit of the rest.

Focus
Focusing represents some task that requires your concentration.
Focusing might be required to repair armor, mend wounds, or meditate to remove an effect. You must
spend the time role playing in a manner appropriate for the skill or ability you are using. You may talk
with others during this role play time if you wish so long as the skill or ability description does not have
additional restrictions which prevent this. Focusing requires that you stay in one area as you role play the
activity. You cannot walk or run. Using other game skills, using called attacks, or using called defenses
interrupts your focus time. Skills and abilities which require Focus do not overlap; what this means is
that if you have two different skills with a Focus requirement the Focus time spent on one ability cannot
be applied to any other activity. You have to role play each Focus time separately to use the associated
ability. Effects that prevent you from using game skills also prevent you from spending time to Focus to
use or refresh abilities. You cannot Rest while you Focus; the times do not overlap.
Game skills will instruct you by saying "Focus for," followed by a time period, followed by the role play
needed to act out the skill, followed by the result of the Focus.
"Focus for one minute, repairing your armor at a forge, to refresh your armor points."



                                                                                                             18
"Focus for one minute, binding the limb of the wounded character" and call "Cure Maim" to tend to the
broken limb.
"Focus for three seconds, shaking off your fear, to purge one Fear effect."
Focusing is interrupted if any game effect that is not beneficial affects you regardless of the delivery.
While you do not exhaust any costs associated with the skill or ability (unless the description explicitly
states otherwise) you must start the entire process from the beginning. This means that calling any
defense, optional or otherwise, interrupts your focus.
Travis and Gerard, for example, each have a skill that provides armor points. Travis has a skill that
requires Rest for one minute to refresh his armor points. Gerard has a skill that requires Focus for one
minute, where he role plays repairing his armor, to refresh his armor points. Both sit down to rest off a
Weakness effect. During that time, Travis may also refresh his armor points. Gerard would still have to
focus for one minute to refresh his armor.

Agony
You are wracked with pain. You cannot attack or use most game skills. You may run, defend yourself by
blocking with weapon skills and can use called defenses. Agony lasts for 10 seconds.

Cure, Remove...
Beneficial Effect (Cure only)
Cure removes one effect on the target. A Cure [Effect] will remove one instance of the specified effect. A
Cure [Trait] will remove one effect with the appropriate trait except Imbue and Inflict unless the Imbue
or Inflict card specifically says otherwise. If the Cure verbal is followed by “All” then all appropriate
effects end. If you have more than one appropriate effect, you may choose which will end when a Cure
effect is applied to you. Cure will never restore Vitality. Cure is a beneficial effect.
Travis, for example, has been affected by the following attacks: Slow by Disease, Slow by Will, and Drain
by Will. A Cure Slow will remove either the Slow by Disease and the Slow by Will, and Travis can choose
which one will end. A Cure Will would remove either the Slow by Will or the Drain by Will since they both
have the Will trait. A Cure All Slow will remove both the Slow by Disease and the Slow by Will.
If a "Cure Maim" effect references a specific limb, the effect will only remove Maim effects on that limb.
If the Cure Maim effect does not specify a limb, it will cure one Maim effect active upon the target. If an
ability or skill allows you to use the "Cure Maim" effect on a specific limb, you touch a packet to the
specified limb to indicate which limb. A “Cure All Maims” effect will remove all Maim effects upon you
regardless of limb.
A "Cure Death" effect will restore a dead target to life and leave them with 1 Vitality unless that target
has transformed to a Spirit of the dead.
Once a character has transformed to a Spirit of the dead, only the rare "Cure Death to Spirit" effect can
restore them to life, and only if it is used before the Spirit reaches its destination.

A "Cure [Trait Name] Trait" effect will remove a trait given to you by an Inflict, Imbue, or other effect that
is temporary. It has no effect on a permanent trait granted by heritage, skill, or the like.
Remove is used to simulate dispels or forced removal of effects. Remove works just like Cure except it is
not a beneficial effect. This has several side effects. Where Cure can be touch cast, Remove cannot be


                                                                                                             19
touch cast. Where Cure can be refused because it is beneficial, Remove cannot be refused. Where Cure
will not interrupt Focus, Remove will interrupt Focus. Where Cure is not negated by and does not
consume Shield, Elude and Guard defenses, Remove will be stopped by and consume Shield, Elude, and
Guard. Otherwise Remove works like Cure.

Damage
This effect removes Vitality points as described in the section on Vitality. Unlike typical effects, Damage is
instantaneous. It removes Vitality points and then the effect ends. You cannot remove or dispel damage.
Vitality points must be restored through healing.

Death
An attack with this effect kills you. You fall down dead, as if you had been struck with a death strike. All
temporary effects upon you end when you are killed except for Imbue and Inflict effects that are not
specifically removed by death. Death lasts for 5 minutes, after which you will rise as a spirit and travel to
the Death area. This process is described in greater detail in the Spirits of the Dead section.
Cure Death and certain special abilities can affect you while you are dead. Some strengthen your spirit so
it is not weakened by the presence of Death. Some might even restore you to life. Others might cause
unpleasant effects. All of these will be handled using an Imbue or Inflict effect. In these cases you will be
given an effect card that explains the results of the Imbue or Inflict effect.

Destroy...
An item is destroyed and cannot be used for any game skill or effect until it is repaired. For most melee
delivered effects, the verbal is simply “Destroy” and the strike will destroy the weapon it hits. For missile
and packet attacks the verbal will include the name of the item and any strike will destroy that named
item. A melee attack that strikes your shield and uses the “Destroy Shield” verbal will render your shield
unusable. The effect is permanent until the item is restored with a Repair effect. Some items may be
truly destroyed if no Repair effect exists in the game to restore them. The item does not crumble away or
disappear; the prop represents the broken item.
An attack that uses the “Destroy Armor” verbal will exhaust all of your armor points. The armor points
can be refreshed or repaired normally as if they had been removed by damage. Melee attacks must
successfully strike you to deliver a Destroy Armor effect. Some creatures might take some kind of
detrimental effect when struck by this attack. If you want to attempt to harm a construct directly with
this effect you would call out “Destroy Form” as the verbal.
Items without tags or safety stickers (such as clothing, belts, pouches, and the like) cannot be affected by
Destroy.

Diagnose
This effect is used to determine if the recipient is inflicted with a specific effect, trait, or game condition.
Skills with the Diagnose effect allow you to use Diagnose to determine the presence of specific effects or
traits with the exception of Imbue or Inflict effects. A skill might also allow you to use Diagnose to
determine if the recipient is currently Stable, Unstable, Dead, or Damage. To use Diagnose, touch the
recipient with a packet and say "Diagnose" followed by an effect, trait or game condition. The recipient


                                                                                                              20
says "Yes" if they are afflicted with the named effect or an effect with the named trait, or if they suffer
the game condition. Otherwise they say "No."
Travis, for example, is lying on the ground unstable and has been inflicted by a Slow by Disease and a
Paralyze by Magic. Another player leans over, touches him with a packet and says "Diagnose Stable."
Travis says "No." She says "Diagnose Unstable" and Travis says "Yes." She uses a Heal effect on Travis but
he still doesn't move. Puzzled, she says "Diagnose Stun." Travis says "No." She says "Diagnose Paralyze."
Travis says "Yes." She has the ability to Cure Poison, so she says "Diagnose Poison." Travis says "No." She
decides to wait until the Paralyze wears off.
If someone uses "Diagnose Damage" on you, you may choose, for the sake of expediency, to include in
your reply the current number of Vitality points that have been removed by Damage. If, for example, you
have taken two damage that has not been healed and someone uses "Diagnose Damage" on you, you
may reply with a simple "Yes" or you may reply with a "Yes, two." The choice of how to respond is up to
you.

Disarm...
You must drop everything in the hand indicated by the verbal. You can pick up items immediately after
they have come to rest. You may pick up an item as soon as it stops moving. The verbal will contain
either "Disarm right hand" or "Disarm left hand." If you are holding a fragile or breakable prop, including
an air gun, you may put it down rather than drop it, but in this case you cannot pick it up for a full five
seconds.
Delivering this effect with a melee attack requires you to strike that weapon while calling the Disarm
effect. You do not need to specify a hand. The hand that is holding the weapon will be affected. A melee
delivered Disarm will not affect a shield unless the "Disarm Shield" verbal is used. You cannot disarm a
shield unless a skill or ability specifically allows the use of "Disarm Shield."

Rule of Etiquette
Delivering a Disarm effect against a weapon requires an attack against the opponent’s weapon. You must
finish the verbal and move your weapon forward, attacking with the legal striking surface. You cannot
call Disarm if you are simply blocking your opponent’s attack, you must be making an effort to strike at
the weapon.

Disengage
To initiate this ability either take a step back or plant your feet for 3 seconds. Gesture at any number of
opponents with your weapons. You cannot move towards any target. Everyone who is attacking you and
everyone indicated by the gesture of your weapon must move back out of weapon range so that you
cannot cross extended weapons. Targets that are rooted or cannot move back may cross their arms and
lean away from the effect instead of backing up. Once the distance has been increased and the space
indicated by the Disengage has been cleared by all targets (or everyone has crossed their arms and
leaned away) the effect ends. Disengage will not force a target into a dangerous area. A target may
choose to cross arms and lean back rather than stepping back into an area that will cause them some
detrimental effect. Disengage is not a melee delivered attack and cannot be negated by defenses that
stop melee attacks.




                                                                                                              21
Drain
For a simple Drain effect, you cannot run or use any game skill, including weapon and shield skills. If the
verbal is followed by a skill or ability name then you cannot use that particular skill. Drain can also be
used to prevent entire skill headers. If a header is drained, you cannot use any skill that falls under that
header. Drain can be used in this manner to suppress heritage abilities and empowered named items. If
an item is named after a Drain effect then no abilities from that item can be used until the Drain ends.
Only simple Drain effects prevent you from running. The Drain effect will last until you rest for five
minutes.

Expose...
The Expose effect is followed by one trait. If you have that trait and are subjected to this effect, you must
cry out, revealing the fact that you have the trait and revealing your position. You must cry out as loudly
as the Expose effect was called.
Although you may cry out softly if the Expose was called softly, you still must make every effort to ensure
that you are revealed to the person who called the effect. The Expose effect is audible and you must cry
out even if you are unconscious or under the effects of a Silence, Stun, Paralyze, or other disabling effect.
You are not affected if you are Dead or have the Spirit defense unless the Expose effect targets those
specific traits. This effect is one of the few that will commonly be delivered by voice.

Frenzy
This effect causes you to attack the closest creature to you, regardless of recognition or consequence.
You may attack with any standard skill that is not beneficial, though you are not forced to use
consumable skills in this attack. If you are affected by a Repel effect, or if you are not affecting the
creature in question, or if you cannot find a way to reach the creature for 10 seconds you will move on to
the next closest creature. If someone else attacks you and that creature is more convenient than your
current target then that creature will become your new target. The effect ends when you are rendered
dead or unconscious.

Grant...
Beneficial Effect
You receive a boon. blessing or magical buff that enhances you in some way. There are a number of
specific Grant effects, each with their own benefit. All Grant effects end if you die, and when the event
ends.
Grant effects have some restrictions.
~ As a default you can have no more than three Grant effects at one time.
~ Each type of Grant listed below also has its own additional restriction.
Grant effects are negated with the Remove effect. A "Remove Grant" effect will negate one Grant effect
of your choice, while a "Remove All Grants" will remove all existing Grant effects. Remove effects can
also specify a type, such as "Remove Armor Grant" or "Remove All Defense Grants." In addition, a
Remove <Trait> effect will negate any Grant effect that also used that trait.
There are five types of Grant effects.



                                                                                                            22
... Armor
"Grant Armor"
"Grant 2 Armor by Inspiration"
This Grant adds additional armor points to either physical armor or armor from other abilities. These
points are refreshed when your armor points are refreshed. If no number is indicated then this effect
boosts your armor points by 1. The effect might indicate a higher number in the verbal such as "Grant 2
Armor" to indicate that a greater number of armor points have been granted.
You may only have one Grant Armor effect active.

... Attribute
"Grant Earth"
"Grant 2 Vitality by Magic"
"Grant 2 Karma by Inspiration"
This Grant adds to the total of one numeric attribute. Any points added with this effect are available
immediately for use. Effects which refresh that attribute can also refresh these additional points. These
extra points can be exhausted to fuel skills and abilities in the same manner as regular attribute points.
If the attribute indicated is Vitality then Heal effects will also restore these additional points. Vitality
calculations and other secondary attribute calculations are not affected by points added by the Grant
effect to another attribute used in that calculation.
No attribute can be modified by more than one Grant effect.

... Protection
"Grant Protection"
"Grant 3 Protection by Inspiration"
This Grant adds additional protection points that negate points of damage. These protection points work
in a manner similar to armor, negating the indicated amount of damage regardless of the source. The
number of points is indicated after the "Grant" in the verbal, and if no number is indicated then the
ability grants a single protection point. Protection points are always lost after armor points.
Protection points are not affected by Waste Vitality effects.
Protection points cannot be refreshed or renewed. Once they are used to negate damage the effect
ends.
You may only have one Grant Protection effect active.

... [Type] Defense
"Grant Poison Defense, Shield"
"Grant Defense by Inspiration, Elude by Blur"
"Grant Melee Defense by Magic, Parry"
"Grant Packet or Missile Defense, Avoid"




                                                                                                               23
This Grant gives you a called defense that works against the Trait or Effect indicated in the [Type] portion
of the verbal. The first half of the verbal is information about the Grant itself, and it can include a trait.
The second half of the verbal tells you what to call when you use the defense. If no [Type] is specified
then the defense can be used against any melee, missile, or packet attack.
Once this defense is used the Grant effect ends. Grant effects which give you Elude, Guard or Shield
effects must be used against the first appropriate attack that strikes you. Grant effects which give you
Avoid, Parry or Resist defenses can be used against any appropriate attack and you can choose whether
or not you will use the defense. The Purge defense requires you to wait for three seconds and call Purge
to end an appropriate effect. Elude, Guard, and Shield defenses that protect against melee attacks must
be used against uncalled melee attacks that strike you.
Once you have a Grant that protects against a specific [Type] of attack you cannot have another Grant
that also defends against the type. You must choose which one to keep. This restriction also applies to a
Grant Defense call which has no specified type; you cannot only have one Grant Defense effect that is
unspecified.
A "Grant Defense by Shadow, Avoid by Shadow" would give you one defense against any melee, missile,
or packet attack. You could choose to take an attack and save the defense for later. You would call out
"Avoid by Shadow" when you used the ability.
A "Grant Poison Defense, Shield" would give you one defense against any attack with the Poison trait.
You would have to use this defense against the first Poison attack that strikes you. You would call out
"Shield" when you used the ability.
A "Grant Missile Defense by Wind, Avoid by Air" would give you one Avoid defense against a missile
attack. You could choose to take the attack and save the defense for later. You would call out "Avoid by
Air" when you used the ability.
Sylla has an active grant effect with the verbal "Grant Poison Defense, Shield" on her. She receives a new
Grant effect with the verbal "Grant Poison Defense by Faerie, Resist." Sylla cannot have two Grant
Defense effects with the same type, so she must choose one and decides to take the resist and let the
shield end. Later, Sylla receives a new Grant effect with the verbal "Grant Disease Defense, Resist." Sylla
can accept that Grant effect since her current Grant works against Poison and the new Grant effect works
against Disease.
Travis has an active Grant effect with the verbal "Grant Defense, Avoid." He knows he can call out
"Avoid" to negate one melee, missile or packet attack because the type isn't specified. Travis receives a
"Grant Defense, Shield" but decides to keep the avoid and the new Grant effect is lost. Later, Travis
receives a "Grant Packet Defense, Avoid." He can keep that defense and his previous Grant because the
type in the Grant verbal is not the same as one is unspecified and thus defaults to "Melee, Missile and
Packet" and the other is specified as a "Packet" defense.

... [Delivery] Attack
"Grant Melee Attack, 2 Damage"
"Grant Missile Attack by Venom, Agony by Poison"
"Grant Packet Attack by Magic, Stun by Fear"
"Grant Attack by Arcane, 5 Damage by Fire"
“Grant Touch Attack, Heal 2”




                                                                                                            24
This Grant gives you one called attack that uses the appropriate delivery. If the delivery is omitted the
recipient may choose melee, missile or packet for the delivery when they receive the effect. You may use
a melee or missile attack only if you have a skill that allows you to make such attacks and the props on
hand to make an attack with the specified delivery. You may use a packet attack only if you have a packet
on hand to make the attack. For melee and missile attacks, the attack is exhausted and the Grant effect
ends only if the strike lands and the opponent acknowledges it with role play or negates it with a
defense. For packet attacks the Grant effect ends when you use the attack whether it hit or missed. If the
attack is a beneficial effect the delivery can also be specified as “Touch.”
As a default you can have no more than one Grant Attack effect.
A "Grant Melee Attack by Shadow, Weakness by Shadow" would give you one melee attack with the
Weakness by Shadow effect. You would call out "Weakness by Shadow" when you used the ability.
A "Grant Packet Attack, 2 Damage by Fire" would give you one packet attack and you would call out "2
Damage by Fire" when you used the ability.
A "Grant Attack, Paralyze by Will" would allow you to choose melee, missile, or packet as the delivery and
you would gain one attack of that type with "Paralyze by Will" as the verbal.
“Grant Touch Attack by Divine, Cure Poison” would allow you to touch a packet to a willing subject to cure
a poison effect. Like any beneficial effect, the recipient could refuse the effect.

Grant Extra...
Grant effects that begin with "Grant Extra" can overcome stacking in the following ways:
~ An attribute modified by a Grant effect can also have one "Grant Extra" effect that stacks.
~ Armor modified by a Grant effect can also have one "Grant Extra" effect that stacks.
~ You can have both a "Grant... Protection" and one "Grant Extra... Protection" effect and the effects
stack.
~ You can have both a "Grant... Defense" and one "Grant Extra... Defense" at the same time.
~ You can have both a "Grant... Attack" and one "Grant Extra... Attack" at the same time.
~ Grant Extra effects do not count towards your three Grant effects.
If you already have an active "Grant Extra" effect, you can accept one regular Grant effect; you need not
receive the "Grant Extra" effect after a regular Grant effect to allow them to stack. You cannot accept
two “Grant Extra” effects, even if you have no Grant effect that did not include “Extra” in the verbal.
Travis has a "Grant 2 Armor" effect that brings his armor total to 4. A servant of his divine patron visits
him before a big battle and gives him a "Grant Extra Armor" effect on him. He now has an armor total of
5, but he could not have an additional "Grant Armor" nor another "Grant Extra Armor" active.
Sylla has only a "Grant Extra Magic Defense, Resist" upon her. A friendly wizard gives her a "Grant Magic
Defense, Shield" to her. She can accept this effect because her other "Grant... Defense" effect is an
"Extra" Grant effect.

Double and Triple
Grant effects with the Double or Triple qualifier will provide multiple uses of the specified attack or
defense but only count as a single Grant effect. In other words, you can have a "Triple Grant Melee
Attack by Skill, 2 Damage" effect that grants you three melee attacks each which do "2 Damage" even



                                                                                                          25
though you are normally allowed only one Grant effect with the Skill trait. Since numeric effects do not
stack this is only relevant for Grant Attack and Grant Defense effects.

Heal...
Beneficial Effect
This effect restores one point of Vitality. If the effect is followed by a number, then it restores Vitality
equal to the indicated number. If the effect is followed by the term “All” then all of your Vitality is
restored. Otherwise it restores one point. If you are unconscious with no Vitality then healing will restore
one or more Vitality points and you will wake immediately unless some other effect is preventing you
from doing so.

Imbue...
Beneficial Effect
This effect can be used in one of two ways. An Imbue effect with the verbal “Imbue [Trait Name] Trait”
will give you the specified trait for the remainder of the event.
Otherwise, this effect is some enhancement or extra ability that is described on an effect card that is
given to you after the effect is used upon you. An Imbue effect with no trait will not take effect until you
have read the effect card. Imbue will usually give you some ability that can be used during the current
event, although the effect card might describe some effect that lasts beyond the current event.
Imbue effect cards can have a wide variety of long term plot effects. Examples include granting a defense
against certain types of attack, strengthening the spirit of a dead character, and similar exceptional
abilities.
If a player can use an Imbue effect, that ability will always have some in game action that must be
accomplished before you can use the ability. You might need to gather and mix components. You might
need to construct some items from strange parts. These actions earn you the effect card needed to use
this effect. You can never use an Imbue ability without the appropriate effect card to represent the
properly prepared components.

Inflict...
This effect can be used in one of two ways. An Inflict effect with the verbal “Inflict [Trait Name] Trait” will
give you the specified trait for the remainder of the event.
Otherwise, this effect is some affliction or detrimental effect that is described on an effect card that is
given to you after the effect is used upon you. An Inflict effect with no trait will not take effect until you
have read the effect card, so a character engaged in combat may not be affected by Inflict effects
described on Inflict cards immediately; they have time to retrieve the effect card and read it when it is
convenient and unobtrusive to do so. Unconscious or dead characters must read the card immediately.
Inflict cards will give you some unusual detriment that will have an effect and a duration described on
the effect card.
Inflict effect cards can have a wide variety of long term plot effects. Examples include causing death after
a certain amount of time, causing you to transform into some type of creature, inflicting you with a




                                                                                                             26
disease that cannot be healed normally, weakening the spirit of a dead character, and similar exceptional
abilities.
Defenses can be used to negate Inflict attacks if those defenses will stop an attack with the appropriate
delivery or trait.
If a player can use an Inflict effect, that ability will always have some in game action that must be
accomplished before you can use it. You might need to gather and mix components. You might need to
construct some items from strange parts. These actions earn you the effect card needed to use the
ability. A player can never use an Inflict ability without an effect card to represent the properly prepared
components.

Maim
One limb becomes useless. An arm must hang at your side and cannot be used for any game ability. A leg
becomes unusable. You must go down on one knee - you cannot hop. You may crawl using your other
limbs. A Maim effect will last for the duration of the event. If a Maim effect is delivered by a melee or
missile attack, the limb struck will be affected. If a Maim effect delivered by a melee or missile attack
strikes the torso then the Maim effect is ignored. If a Maim effect is delivered by a packet, the attacker
can include the limb in the verbal. For example, a caster might call out "Maim Right Leg by Fire." If the
limb is not specified, then the subject may choose one limb that is not already affected by a Maim. Maim
only works on arms and legs.

Paralyze
You must stand frozen. You cannot move, but you are aware of what is happening around you. If you are
rendered unconscious, or if someone tries to change your pose, you will collapse to the ground. Paralyze
will last until you rest for five minutes. You are resting while you are paralyzed even if you are standing.

Refresh...
Beneficial Effect
Refresh is always followed by either an attribute or a skill that has a limited number of uses. You recover
one or more uses of the named skill or one or more points of the named attribute. If you do not have the
named skill or attribute then the Refresh has no effect. As a default, Refresh restores one point or use of
a skill. If a number is placed before the attribute or skill name then you will restore more attribute points
or uses of a skill. Skills that require attributes cannot be restored directly and are unaffected by a Refresh
effect. Refresh will never raise you above your maximum attribute or give you more uses of a skill than
you would have at the start of an event.
Refresh can also be used to restore abilities of an empowered item. If the item has a unique name and
Refresh is followed by that name then the abilities of the item are restored.

Repair...
Beneficial Effect
You restore one item that has been rendered unusable by a Destroy effect. For an item you are touching
you need not specify a target in the verbal. For other types of abilities you specify a target after the
Repair verbal. Repair may also be used to refresh armor points. A "Repair Armor" effect will restore one
armor point of your current active armor. A Repair <Number> Armor effect will restore a number of

                                                                                                           27
armor points equal to the indicated amount, or all armor points if the number of exhausted armor points
is lower than the indicated amount. "Repair All Armor" will restore your armor to its maximum value.

Repel
This effect prevents you from using melee, missile, or packet attacks on the attacker. You will also
attempt to stay 10 feet away from the attacker unless doing so would endanger you. If this is the case
you may move to a safer position even if it takes you within 10 feet, so long as you then attempt once
again to stay 10 feet away from the attacker. You cannot use melee, missile, or packet attacks on the
attacker in any case. The Repel effect will last until you rest for five minutes unless the attacker strikes
you with a melee attack that does not cause a Repel effect. If the attacker strikes you with a melee attack
using an effect that is not Repel then this effect ends immediately.
The attacker is not immune to the attacks of a character affected by the Repel. That character is free to
launch attacks at other creatures so the attacker should be careful to stay clear of other potential targets
and avoid attacks launched at other characters.

Root
You cannot move your right foot from its spot. You may pivot on that foot, and you may move your left
foot. A Root effect will last until you rest for five minutes.

Silence
You cannot talk or make any in game verbal noise. You cannot use game skills that require incantations.
You must still call out during Expose effects. You must still use out of game phrases as normal. A Silence
effect will last until you rest for five minutes.

Slam
Some great force knocks you back and off your feet. When you are struck with this effect you role play an
extremely forceful blow or blast. You may take up to three steps backwards and fall down. The steps
backward are optional. The effect ends when your chest or back touches the ground. If falling to the
ground is an issue due to ground quality, crowding or health you may opt to instead take your steps, drop
to a knee and place both hands palm down on the ground and shake your head for three seconds.
Some Slam effects are so powerful they knock you back through a shield. If you hear "Shield Slam" it
works even if it strikes your shield. This attack can be blocked by a weapon and would count as a strike to
the limb holding the shield.

Slow
You cannot run. You may only walk at a normal pace. The Slow effect will last until you rest for five
minutes.

Stabilize
Beneficial Effect
If you are at 0 Vitality and unstable this effect makes you stable. You start your 5 minute count.
Otherwise you call "No Effect."



                                                                                                          28
Stricken
You are unaffected by any beneficial effect unless it removes the Stricken effect from you. Call "No
Effect" to any other beneficial effect used on you.
There is one exception; if someone uses First Aid on you then the Stabilize effect will work. Only a "Cure
Stricken" effect or a Cure effect applied to the trait of this attack will remove this effect. An effect that
removes the Stricken effect from you will not remove other effects. Stricken does not work on items you
carry or wear and items may be affected by Repair or Imbue effects. The Stricken effect will last until you
rest for five minutes.
For example, if you have a Stricken by Poison and a Paralyze by Poison effect upon you, a Cure Poison
effect will remove the Stricken effect but it won't also remove the Cure Paralyze effect. A second Cure
Poison would be needed to remove the Paralyze by Poison effect.

Stun
You are knocked unconscious. Stun will last until you rest for five minutes. You are resting while you are
stunned. Another character may take a full minute of role play to revive you and end this effect.

Speak
Beneficial Effect
This effect allows you to converse with a creature or being that cannot otherwise communicate with you.
It is usually used with the Bane trait, allowing you to speak with specific types of creatures. The subject is
under no obligation or compulsion to speak with you, but it may do so if it wishes. The Speak effect will
last until a participant uses another game skill or until a participant moves out of reasonable
conversation range.

Waste...
Waste is always followed by either an attribute or a skill that has a limited number of uses. You lose one
or more uses of the named skill or one or more points of the named attribute. Waste has no effect if you
have no attribute points or skill uses left. If you do not have the named skill then Waste to that skill has
no effect. As a default, Waste removes one point or use of a skill. If a number is placed before the
attribute or skill name then you will lose more attribute points or uses of the skill. Skills that require
attributes cannot be wasted directly and are unaffected by a Waste effect.
Wasted attribute points and skill uses can be refreshed. A Cure Waste effect will restore points or skill
uses lost to Waste effects unless they have already been refreshed or restored by some other means.
Once a wasted attribute or skill use has been refreshed a Cure Waste effect will have no effect on you.
Attributes and skills lost to a Waste effect are always refreshed before points lost through normal use.
Waste can also be used to remove abilities of an empowered item. If the item has a unique name and
Waste is followed by that name then any charged abilities of the item are removed as if they had been
used.
A Waste Vitality effect will reduce your current Vitality total. This effect ignores armor points, but is
otherwise treated as a called Damage effect and will render you unstable if it removes the last of your
Vitality points.


                                                                                                            29
Weakness
Your ability to strike with melee attacks is severely weakened. You cannot deliver any called effects with
your melee attacks. Weakness does not affect uncalled strikes or any other weapon skill. The Weakness
effect will last until you rest for five minutes.

Attack Traits
Most attacks include a descriptive trait. This trait is indicated by the second part of the verbal. The trait
of an attack adds flavor to the attack and determines whether certain defenses can be used to negate
the attack. If an attack is "5 Damage by Fire" then the trait of the attack would be Fire.
The "by Weapon" trait is dropped from the verbal of normal melee attacks to reduce noise. Any melee or
missile attack with no trait is assumed to have the "Weapon" trait.
Most attack traits allow you to role-play the effect. You may step back or cry out in reaction to the attack.
If you are surprised by an attack, however, you cannot add additional role play to the effect. For example,
if you were hit by a "Stun by Force" from a visible enemy then you could add the role play of crying out
or staggering back. But if someone sneaks up behind you and calls out "Stun" with a melee attack then
you should just go down. If someone sneaks up and surprises you with a spell that you honestly did not
see coming, you should not cry out to warn your friends.

Elemental Traits
These include Air, Cold, Earth, Fire, Ice, Lightning, Water, and Wind. The effect is caused by elemental
power. Abilities that work against Elemental effects will work against effects with any of these traits. You
may role-play an Elemental effect by crying out or stepping backwards as the effect is inflicted.

Mental Traits
These include Awe, Confusion, Despair, Fear, Gloom, Inspiration, Madness, Presence, Trance, and Will.
The effect is caused by some mental or emotional reaction. Abilities that work against Mental effects will
work against effects with any of these traits. You may role play a Mental effect by crying out or stepping
backwards as the effect is inflicted.

Metabolic Traits
These include Aging, Air, Cold, Disease, Poison, Radiation, and Sleep. The effect is caused by a
Metabolic reaction. Abilities that work against Metabolic effects will work against effects with any of
these traits. You may role play a Metabolic effect by crying out or stepping backwards as the effect is
inflicted.

Physical Traits
These include Crystal, Earth, Force, Ice, Silver, Thorns, Weapon, Web, and Wind. The effect is caused by
a Physical force. Abilities that work against Physical effects will work against effects with any of these
traits. You may role play a Physical effect by crying out or stepping backwards as the effect is inflicted.

Special Traits
All traits not included above are Special traits. These can include, but are not limited to, Acid, Blessing,
Curse, Light, Magic, Malediction, and Shadow. These traits are not included in any general trait, so



                                                                                                               30
abilities must specifically include them. Special attacks allow no additional role playing; you will suffer
the effect of a Special attack immediately.

Bane
This is a unique attack trait that works against another specific trait, and targets only those creatures
that have that trait. Instead of saying "by" you would say "to" and state the trait that is targeted. An
attack that stated "10 Damage to Undead" would be an example of an attack with the Bane trait, and the
attack would only affect creatures with the Undead trait. If you somehow lose the trait that a Bane effect
targets while under that effect, then the effect ends immediately. So, if you had a “to Dead” effect upon
you and you were brought back to life then the “to Dead” effect would end. Remember that the heritage
of a character is always considered to be a trait of that character. Bane attacks allow no additional role
playing; you will suffer the effect of a Special attack immediately.
Some effects may have both a normal trait and a bane trait. In this case the attack affects only those
targeted by the Bane effect but it may be resisted by defenses that work against the normal trait. An
attack that stated "Paralyze by Fear to Elf" would only affect characters with the Elf trait but it could be
negated by a Resist Fear defense.

Self
This trait indicates that the effect works only on the person using it. Instead of saying "by" you would say
"to Self" after the effect. This indicates that you are the only target of the called effect.

Defenses
These abilities allow you to negate abilities used against you. Although there are a large number of
possible defenses that can be used against specific causes and effects, all defenses can be summarized as
one of the following types.
When it is possible to apply multiple defenses to an attack the defender decides which defense to use.
Although Elude, Guard, and Shield defense must be used if an attack would affect you, it is possible, for
example, to use a skill that provides a Resist defense when an appropriate attack strikes you to “protect”
and Shield type defense. You could, for example, use a Resist against Fear to save a Shield against any
Mental trait.

Elude, Guard, Shield
You negate the first attack of the appropriate type that strikes you. Although different verbals are used to
indicate the nature of your defense and to add flavor to the game, all of these defenses work the same
way. You must call out the defense when it is used.

Avoid, Parry, Resist
You choose one attack of the appropriate type to negate when it strikes you. You can allow an attack to
affect you and negate a later attack. Although different verbals are used to indicate the nature of your
defense and to add flavor to the game, all of these defenses work the same way. You must call out the
defense when it is used.




                                                                                                               31
Purge
You may negate an attack after it has affected you. You must spend three seconds to role play this
defense as you shake off the effect, during which time you must remain relatively still. You cannot use
game skills while role playing the purge. You cannot use Purge while unconscious unless doing so would
wake you. You cannot use Purge when you are dead unless the skill specifically allows you to use “Purge
Death” in the verbal.

No Effect
You are unaffected by the attack in question. This indicates a defense that is not consumable. The attack
does not affect you, nor will it ever affect you.

Reduce, Absorb
You are affected by the attack in question, but the effect has been mitigated, lessened, or changed
entirely. The actual reduction is determined by the skill or ability that allows you to use this defense.
Reduce is often used to indicate the effect has been lessened while Absorb often indicates that the
attack had a different effect entirely. The verbal for this defense might be followed by "to" and the
modified effect such as "Reduce to Maim" or "Absorb to Heal 2." You must role play the new effect
appropriately.

Increased
While not exactly a defense, this call indicates that the effect had a greater than normal effect on the
target. If the target calls “Increased” in response to a beneficial effect, the target might have an ability or
skill that allows them to receive additional benefit from the effect in question. If the target calls
“Increased” in response to an attack, the target might have a weakness or vulnerability to the effect or
trait that was used against them. Some games might use “Increased to…” followed by an effect to
specify extra information about the game effect.

Reflect
You choose one melee, missile, or packet attack of the appropriate type to rebound back at the attacker
when it strikes you. Call this defense to negate the effects of the attack. If your attack is reflected then
you must take the attack as if your melee, missile or packet had struck you. The attack retains all of the
original traits so it might not actually affect you. You may use defenses to negate the attack, including
using Reflect to bounce it back on the original target.

Spirit
You are insubstantial and are unaffected by most attacks. You call "Spirit" to any attack that you negate
for this reason. You cannot use game abilities unless specifically allowed to do so. You cannot speak or
converse with other characters unless they use an ability that allows you to do so. If someone tries to
talk with you, you may call "Spirit" to inform them that you cannot speak. You cannot drop any items. No
one may search you, nor can items that you carry be removed from your person. Nothing can be thrown
over you. You cannot rest while in spirit form, and effects that last until you rest will not be removed. You
cannot block doorways or portals. If someone tries to move through a portal that you are blocking then
you are forced to move.



                                                                                                             32
Characters who have died and are traveling to the Realm of Death are spirits. If you gain the Spirit trait
because you have died and you have become a Spirit of the Dead then you also gain the Dead trait.
Effects with the trait "to Spirit" affect all spirits, while effects with the trait "to Dead" affect only spirits of
the dead. You must walk with your head bowed and your hands at your side.
Some abilities allow a living character to become a spirit for a time, but these abilities usually have
special restrictions or will not be absolute in their protection. You might gain a trait and become
vulnerable to attacks with that trait even though you are a spirit. Some of these skills last until you move.
In these cases you cannot move or speak without ending the effect. If you turn into a spirit in a place
which blocks a portal or doorway then you are forced to move to allow someone through. Since this can
end the effect you must be careful to use these types of skills so as to not block confined areas.

Defense Traits
A defense might have a trait associated with it. The verbal should include the defense and the trait with
a "by" between them. This can be done to add flavor to an ability, to differentiate two similar skills, or to
allow other skills to key off certain defenses.

Chained Defense
A chained defense has an effect that is called immediately after the defense. The verbal should include
the defense and the additional effect with an "and" between them. If the additional effect is an attack
then that attack must be launched immediately as the defense is called. Using the additional effect could
be optional or required. If the additional effect affects the character using the chained defense then the
ability must use the Self trait and the character must role play that effect as if they had been struck by it.
For example, a Fire based attack strikes a Fire Elemental. The creature calls out "Resist and Heal to Self"
to indicate that the attack was negated and the creature was healed by using the defense.
For example, a strong creature can tear out of some physical effects but it takes damage doing so. The
creature is struck by the appropriate attack, role plays for 3 seconds, calls out "Purge and 2 Damage to
Self" and then role plays the damage effect.
For example, a character has an ability that simulates a Riposte. The character is struck by a successful
melee attack, calls out "Parry and 3 Damage," and immediately swings at the person who attacked her.
For example, a creature has an ability that can shoot attacks with the Magic trait back at the attacker.
The creature is struck by a "Paralyze by Magic." The character calls "Resist and Paralyze by Magic" and
throws a packet back at the attacker.

Armor
Armor provides points of protection that act as a buffer against damage effects. Armor points are
removed by damage in a manner similar to Vitality. Armor points are lost before Vitality points. The
method by which exhausted armor points are restored varies depending on the type of armor you are
using and the skills and abilities of the Accelerant game you are playing.
You may only have one base type of armor active at a time. If you try to restore or activate or wear one
type of armor while you have active points from another type of armor, the armor type with the lower
number of active armor points will be exhausted. If there is a tie, then the new armor points will be

                                                                                                                 33
immediately exhausted. Exhausted armor points are gone and must be restored just as if they were
exhausted by Damage.
For example, Travis is wearing a 2 point suit of armor. He role plays and activates a skill that gives him 3
points of armor. The armor points from the suit of armor are exhausted and he has 3 armor points from
his skill. If he wants to use the armor points from his suit of armor later, he will have to have the armor
suit repaired.

Traps
Traps are devices or substances set to deliver an effect to anyone who disturbs them or attempts to get
past them. Anyone can avoid a trap, but no one can attempt to manipulate a trap by moving it, disarming
it, or affecting the individual components unless they have a skill that allows them to do so.
Most traps will cause an effect to the person who set them off. If someone manages to trigger a trap
with a thrown object, then the object will take the effect instead. If the trap affects the entire room or
corridor, then this trick will not provide much help. Some traps will work multiple times, while some will
work once. If an item is causing a trap to go off continuously then anyone who touches the item will take
the effect.
If a trap is set in a small box, chest, or other enclosed area no larger than 3 feet in any dimension then
setting it off will destroy everything inside the area. Coins, items, paper, and everything else inside will
be destroyed and cannot be removed from the box. If any living creature has somehow crawled into an
enclosed area no more than 3 feet in any dimension with a trap and the trap goes off then that fool will
be killed instantly. There are four types of traps.

Snap Trap
These traps make a snap sound when they go off. They are represented by mousetraps, party poppers,
and snaps. These traps cause 2 Damage to whoever sets them off.

Buzzer Trap
These traps make an electronic sound of some kind when they are set off. Sounds used for these traps
include beepers, buzzers, and electronic sound effects like the moaning of a rigged welcome mat you
might find at Halloween. These traps cause 5 Damage to whoever sets them off.

Verbal Trap
When these traps are set off and you will hear a trap sound and a voice will call out a verbal associated
with them. Whoever set the trap off must take the effect of that verbal. If no verbal is present, then the
sound determines the type of trap as described above.

Gas Trap
Same as a magical trap, but the verbal will begin with the words "In This Room..." Everybody in the room
will take the effect. This trap only works in an enclosed room with normal doorways and corridors
leaving it. The trap will affect you if any part of you is within the room when the trap goes off.




                                                                                                           34
Contact Poison
This attack is represented by petroleum jelly. If you touch the jelly with bare skin, you will take an effect
of "5 Damage by Poison." A character with the appropriate skill may apply such a substance directly from
the vial it was created in.
Once applied to a surface, the jelly cannot be scraped off onto another object. Only a character with an
appropriate skill may wipe the substance off a surface with a cloth or cloth like substance, but the
contact poison is destroyed in the process.
An item with contact poison is considered a Red Sticker item. The fumes and burning of the poison are
overwhelming, even to a character who is immune to it. The object cannot be moved from its place or
handled until the poison is removed by a character with the appropriate skill to do so.

Shackles
Shackles are a prop that binds the wrists or legs of a character. An in game lock is affixed to each prop to
represent the locking mechanism of that prop. The prop must be loose enough to remain comfortable
and, for safety, the player must be able to easily remove the prop if an out of game need arises.
Shackles can only be placed on a helpless or willing character if the lock is open. You place the shackle
prop on the helpless or willing target and close the lock. Shackles placed on the arm restrict movement
and make it impossible to use any skill that requires that the arms must be free, including using
weapons, using packet attacks, and using First Aid. You may use a skill that allows you to attempt to open
a game lock on your own shackles. Shackles placed on the legs make it impossible to run and restrict
movement to the extent of the shackles. A prop placed on the ankles must be constructed to allow the
player to stand and walk slowly.
Shackles can be removed by opening the lock or by using an appropriate skill to remove them. Each
game will have a skill assigned to destroy and remove shackles by taking a minute and using the
appropriate props and role playing. Skills that allow a character to slip out of bonds are possible as well.

Verbal Modifiers
There are certain phrases that can be added to verbals to change the effect. These can modify the
duration or add additional effects to an attack. For simplicity, a single attack can only be modified by one
verbal modifier.

Short
Someone precedes an attack verbal with "Short" and calls out an effect that lasts until you rest or lasts
for the entire event. That effect instead lasts until you rest for 10 seconds. If used with Frenzy then the
effect will only last 10 seconds.

Permanent
Someone precedes an attack verbal with "Permanent" and calls out an effect with a duration. The effect
will last at least for the remainder of the event. Permanent effects may not be removed by resting, but
may still be removed by the Cure effect.



                                                                                                              35
Ambient
Someone precedes an attack verbal with “Ambient” to indicate that the effect is a result of an
environmental or a plot condition and not an effect that originates from the creature that calls it.
Although the effect itself remains unchanged, this indicates to the players that disabling the creature
calling the effect will not prevent the effect. This modifier is usually used with plot deliveries to indicate
plot driven effects.
If, for example, someone from plot called out “By My Voice, Ambient Agony by Fire” then the players
would know that throwing a Silence effect or trying to Paralyze the creature calling the effect would not
prevent the plot person from calling the effect. A plot person could also call something like “By Your
Name, Travis, Ambient Agony by Disease” to indicate that some plot condition is causing Travis pain but
it isn't related to the creature calling the effect.

Double and Triple
One single delivery causes multiple attacks to affect the target. "Double" causes two of the specified
attack to be delivered, while "Triple" causes three attacks to be delivered. Each attack requires a
separate defense.
For example, a wizard calls out "Triple 10 Damage by Fire" and throws a packet that hits you. You must
take three "10 Damage by Fire" attacks. "Resist Fire" would negate one of these attacks and you would
still take two attacks. You may use multiple defenses against these attacks.

Chained Effects
Two effects can be chained in one attack. The verbal should name the effects with an "and" between
them. If both effects have the same trait then the trait is called only at the end of the attack. If both
effects have different traits then a trait is called for each effect. A defense that negates one of the effects
or one of the traits if they are different would only affect that portion of the attack. In the case where
both effects have the same trait, however, a defense that negated the appropriate trait would negate all
effects. The attack is still considered a single melee, missile, or packet attack so a defense that negates a
hit from a specific delivery such as melee, missile, or packet will negate the entire attack.
For example, a spider calls out "Drain and Slow by Poison" and hits a player with a packet. The defense
"Resist Poison" would negate the entire attack. The defense "Resist Slow" would negate the Slow effect,
but the character would still be affected by the Drain effect. If the character had both "Resist Slow" and
"Resist Drain" defenses then both could be used to negate the effects of the attack.
For example, a wraith calls out "Paralyze by Fear and 2 Damage" and hits the player with a melee attack.
The defense "Resist Fear" would negate the Paralyze effect. The defense "Resist Weapon" would negate
the Damage effect. A skill that negates one melee strike would negate the entire attack.

Additional Rules and Gameplay
Plagued
Sometimes, a player may have a real-world reason that prevents them from adventuring, which can
interfere with the heroic ideals of their character. When this happens, a player can decide that the


                                                                                                             36
“Plague” has taken their character. The “Plague” is magical and debilitating. It can’t be cured until the
player makes the out-of-game decision to end the effect. The player has enough skill and mobility to get
to their cabin or an out-of-game area and then no game magic will help them until the player decides
they feel well enough to re-enter the game.
When a player is “Plagued” the rest of the participants will gracefully accept that the player is out of the
action. We do not allow players to try to shame or guilt the plagued players into continuing the game.
We respect their need for downtime, and in-game characters will both understand the severity of the
ailment that takes their character out of the action, but also understand that characters eventually
recover from the “Plague” and they do not need to worry about the afflicted character.

Graceful Exit
When a character uses the term “Graceful Exit,” other players should respect that they need to bow out
of the scene. A short goodbye or farewell is fine, but respect the “Graceful Exit” and let the player go.
The conversation ends, and the other players continue the game with as much normalcy and
understanding as possible.
A staff person might call for a “Graceful Exit” if they are needed, for out-of-game reasons, in a different
place. As much as they would love to continue the conversation, they really have to go because people
are waiting on them for some big encounter. When a staff person calls for a “Graceful Exit” , understand
it isn’t anything personal, and bow out of the role-play.
If a player calls for a “Graceful Exit,” they may be uncomfortable or uncertain about a scene, an area, or
something else related to the role-play or situation. In this case not only do we enable their departure
and role-play so as to cover for them or move on to other adventures, but we are also mindful of the
conversation and are careful not to approach them about the same or similar subjects. If there was some
specific conversation going on when a “Graceful Exit” is called, then you have the responsibility to drop
that conversation. Don’t approach the character about the same topic later on, unless they bring it up.




                                                                                                          37
                              IN DARKENED DREAMS
Characters
To build your character, you assign Character Points (CP) to build up your attributes and your skills. Your
attributes determine your capabilities and limitations. Your skills measure the accumulated knowledge
that affects your performance in the game.
You start with 30 CP to build a character, and you gain an additional 5 CP when your character
history/new player survey has been approved. More character points are gained as you play the game
and as your character progresses.

Traits
Each character has traits that they automatically gain.
    ●​ You have the Living trait unless you are dead.
    ●​ Your Heritage is also a trait you possess.
            ○​ If your heritage has specific versions, then you have both your general heritage as a trait
                 and your specific heritage as well.
    ●​ Your Faction is also a trait you possess.
    ●​ Each skill header you purchase is also a trait.
            ○​ For example, a character who has purchased the Rogue header has the Rogue trait.
    ●​ A character gains a trait based on how many character points they have spent on skills and
       abilities.
            ○​ Initiate trait: A character who has spent less than 50 CP.
            ○​ Experienced trait: A character who has spent at least 50 CP but has not yet spent 100 CP.
            ○​ Accomplished trait: A character who has spent at least 100 CP.

Attributes
Each character has five attributes: Air, Earth, Fire, Water, and Void. These represent your character’s
potential to use certain game skills - they do not reflect your personal abilities as a player, nor do they
restrict your real-world actions.
    ●​   Air:​   Represents your mind and awareness.
    ●​   Earth:​ Represents your physical resilience and stamina.
    ●​   Fire:​ Represents your passion and drive.
    ●​   Water:​ Represents your mobility and agility
    ●​   Void: ​ Represents your ability to refocus and restore spent resources.
All five attributes start at 2. To increase one of these attributes, you spend CP equal to the value of the
next level. Example: to increase your Void attribute from 2 to 3, you spend 3 CP; to increase it from 3 to
4, you spend 4 CP.
Certain skills require spending these attributes to use them. However, all attributes are fully refreshed at
the start of each event. They can also be restored during play through effects like Refresh.
Example: If you choose not to invest in Water, you may not activate as many Water-based skills - but this
does not reduce your actual ability to dodge or move during combat.




                                                                                                              38
Void
Void is a unique attribute in that you can exhaust a Void point to refresh your other attributes. This
makes Void the most crucial attribute for maintaining a high level of power throughout an event.
Refreshing your attributes with Void takes 5 minutes of rest, as described in the Time section above. At
the end of the 5 minutes, your Air, Earth, Fire, and Water attributes are refreshed to full. In addition, you
are healed, restoring all your Vitality.
Each character should have a personalized method of refreshing their attributes with Void. You might
meditate, stretch, practice drills or maneuvers, pray, chant, or engage in a variety of other activities. You
might do a combination of these things. Spending Void to use skills, use abilities, or cast spells does not
take 5 minutes and does not refresh your other attributes.

Vitality
Vitality is a measure of your character's physical health.
Your Vitality is equal to the total of your Earth and Void attributes divided by 2, rounded up.

Armor
Armor provides points of protection that act as a buffer against damage effects. Armor points are
removed by damage like Vitality. Armor points are lost before Vitality points. The method by which
exhausted armor points are restored varies depending on the type of armor you are using and the skills
and abilities of the Accelerant game you are playing.
You may only have one base type of armor active at a time. If you try to restore or activate or wear one
type of armor while you have active points from another type of armor, the armor type with the lower
number of active armor points is exhausted. If there is a tie, then the new armor points are immediately
exhausted. Exhausted armor points are gone and must be restored just as if they were exhausted by
Damage.
For example, Travis is wearing a suit of armor worth 2 points. He role-plays and activates a skill that
grants him 3 points of armor. The armor points from the suit of armor are exhausted, and he has 3 armor
points from his skill. If he wants to use the armor points from his suit of armor later, he must have the
armor suit repaired.
At In Darkened Dreams, all characters may wear up to two points of physical armor. You must be skilled
in the use of armor to effectively wear more than two points. You may wear a prop worth more points
without this skill, but your armor skill limits the protection it provides. You may spend one minute of
Focus to repair physical armor.
At In Darkened Dreams, you must wear an appropriate prop to use physical armor. You have six armor
areas: your head, upper torso, lower torso, shoulders, arms, and legs. A full suit covers at least four of
these areas. A partial suit covers fewer than four areas. For each area under four that you wear, the
overall value of the armor is reduced by one.
    ●​ Light armor (2 points): includes light suede, thin leather, and furs.
    ●​ Medium armor (3 points): includes rigid leather and chain mail.
    ●​ Heavy armor (4 points or more): includes scale mail, plate mail, or chain mail reinforced with
       rigid leather or plate pieces in at least two areas. If you wear chain mail reinforced with rigid
       leather or plate pieces, those pieces must be clearly visible to count as heavy armor.


                                                                                                             39
Damage Increases
Skills, items, or effects may change the damage done by a skill (i.e., normally, you call 2 damage, but if
you use this magic sword, you call 3 damage instead).
Others may add a numerical value to a called damage effect (i.e., This magic sword adds +1 to all called
damage). Only the highest numerical value applies; the additions do not stack.

Spell-like Abilities
Some skills are not spells, but require the user to follow all rules required for casting spells (i.e., not
Silenced, not carrying weapons, etc.) as defined in the Magic chapter. These skills are marked as a
Spell-like Ability.

Stress
In the grim and perilous world of In Darkened Dreams, the horrors you face erode your mental resilience.
This is represented by your character's Stress level, a resource that tracks the psychological toll of your
experiences. As Stress accumulates, it imposes increasingly severe penalties on your character. All Stress
effects are cumulative, meaning you suffer the effects of your current Stress level and all lower levels. If
your Stress reaches 5, additional Inflict Stress effects have no further impact.

Stress Effects
Stress 1+: The pain of Agony and recovering from a Short effect takes twice as long.
Stress 2+: All healing effects restore 1 less point of health, to a minimum of 1 point of healing.
Stress 3+: Actions requiring Focus (e.g. resetting armor or healing pools) take twice as long.
Stress 4+: You take +1 damage from all called attacks.
Stress 5: While conscious, you are under the effect of Stricken.

Gaining Stress
Stress accumulates through specific actions, environments, or proximity to certain threats. External
sources of Stress are delivered via Inflict calls or information tags. Examples include:
    ●​ A monster calls, “By My Voice, Inflict Stress by Presence” — Add 1 to your total Stress
    ●​ A monster calls, “By My Voice, Inflict 2 Stress by Presence” — Add 2 to your total Stress
    ●​ An information tag stating, “The first time you enter this door, take Inflict 1 Stress by Fear.” - Add
       1 to your total Stress.
Additionally, Stress is gained in the following situations:
    ●​ You gain 1 Stress whenever you become Dead.
    ●​ You gain 1 Stress when attempting to resurrect at the Vaelion Door, unless you possess a Writ of
       the Vaelion Door.




                                                                                                              40
Removing Stress
To mitigate Stress, players must seek in-game effects, such as:
    ●​ “Cure Stress” – removes 1 Stress.
    ●​ “Cure 2 Stress” – removes 2 Stress.
    ●​ “Cure All Stress” – removes all Stress.

Touch Attacks
Skills and spells may specify to touch a target with a packet to deliver the effect. These effects are
considered Packet Attacks, as defined in the Accelerant Core Rules.




                                                                                                         41
Heritage
Each character has a magical heritage that determines the form they take. Many people are Solari, but
there are many other heritages in the world, including Elves, Grelkyn, Umbrethil, and more. Each
heritage represents the magic that flows through your blood and influences your form. Your heritage is
not genetic, but rather the magic that flows through your blood, passed from generation to generation.
A character’s heritage affects their appearance, may provide some disadvantages, and allows the player
to purchase heritage skills.

Solari
“They see in themselves and others not their faults and failings, but what they might yet become.”
The firstborn of the world, the oldest myths claim that Aurethiel created the Solari not as perfected
beings but as vessels of possibility. She scattered them across the world like embers on the wind to be as
varied as they are numerous.
They are creatures of motion, rarely content to stand still; called to walk the road, often stumbling, never
perfect, but always moving forward. This restlessness makes the Solari inventive, ambitious, curious, and
sometimes reckless.
They adapt quickly to new lands, cultures, hardships, and opportunities alike, moving with restless
vitality.

Appearance Requirements: The Solari require no makeup.

Adaptability 1
You gain two points of Adaptability. When using skills or spells, you may spend an Adaptability point in
place of an attribute, determined by your kingdom of origin.
Adaptability points do not refresh when you spend Void.
    ●​   The Concord: Adaptability points may be spent in place of Earth.
    ●​   Virelle: Adaptability points may be spent in place of Air.
    ●​   The Grand Unity of Calvarezzo: Adaptability points may be spent in place of Water.
    ●​   Soleilmarche: Adaptability points may be spent in place of Fire.

Energetic 1
Solari are an energetic folk filled with passion and impatience. Once per event, you may reduce the
resting time to use Void to refresh your attributes to 1 minute.




                                                                                                           42
Grelkyn
“We are the spark of Aurethiel’s first laugh — fragments of joy scattered to pierce the deepest shadows
and remind the weary that light begins with wonder.”
The Grelkyn were not carved from stone or summoned from storm — they were sparked. According to
the Order of the Light Seen, when Aurethiel first carved the Road of Light, a single moment of joy and
laughter broke through her sorrow. From that golden spark of mirth and divine wonder, the Grelkyn
were born. They were not made to conquer or to rule. They were born to question, to discover, and to
guide others toward the light, no matter how deep the dark had grown.
The Grelkyn’s fascination with metals is deeply tied to their spiritual origins, as they believe their
existence began from the first divine spark of Aurethiel’s laughter. For them, metal is not just a tool, but a
sacred medium through which they explore, create, and uncover deeper truths about the world.
Whether forging simple tools or sculpting art, their work is both an act of personal discovery and a
reflection of their divine calling. Driven by a need to perfect and innovate, the Grelkyn constantly tinker,
pushing the boundaries of craftsmanship in search of beauty, utility, and spiritual enlightenment.
Appearance Requirements: All Grelkyn bear intricate vein-like tracings of red metals—copper, bronze, or
aged brass—that wind across the left side of their face only. These metallic patterns shimmer faintly in
firelight and are said to pulse slightly in moments of deep emotion or insight.
Some Grelkyn develop what is known as a crown of ore — a faint smudging of metallic dust across the
forehead, like soot or forge-ash, tinged with red-gold hues. A single central streak of copper or bronze
rises from between the brows to the hairline, as though drawn there by unseen hands. This “crown” is
often interpreted as a sign of spiritual awakening.
Disadvantage: The Grelkyn are susceptible to Fear. Whenever you are affected by an effect with the Fear
trait (including beneficial effects), you take “1 Damage to Self” as an additional effect. This included both
beneficial and non-beneficial attacks.

Grelkyn Tinkering 0
You have a craft that allows you to make a living. This skill provides money at the beginning of each
event. You may also sell props related to your chosen craft for in-game money.

Lightcraft 2
Spell-like Ability
Grelkyn can channel faint flickers of Aurethiel’s light.
You spend 1 point of Water to make a touch attack for “Heal 3 by Light.”




                                                                                                           43
Umbrethil
The Umbrethil are said to be the First to Fall — not of misdeeds, but of sorrow.
According to forbidden verses known only to the Order of the Light Seen, when Aurethiel first lit the
Road of Light, there were those who stood at its edge but could not take the step. Not evil, not defiant —
merely paralyzed by grief, shame, or loss. As the Light moved forward, it cast shadows behind it.
From those shadows the Umbrethil were born: not as punishment, but as echoes of those who could not
walk the Road. Shaped by holy sorrow and sacred stillness, they are creatures of hush and dusk —
neither condemned nor saved, always walking beside the light but never quite in it.
Though they are not undead, their presence unsettles the devout and unnerves the living. Still, some see
them as divine reminders: not of what is lost, but of what must not be left behind.
“They are not demons. They are the silence after the hymn.”​
– High Lantern of Soleilmarche
Appearance Requirements: Dark circles beneath the eyes in shades of blue, gray, or purple; pale or
blue-tinged lips; a dark blue, gray, or purple star pattern on the forehead or temple. ​
Optional: Pale foundation; additional blue, gray, or purple accents beneath cheekbones and around eyes
to create a hollow, gaunt look.
Disadvantage: You may not receive the benefit of the Spell “Writ of the Vaelion Door.”

The Dread Hush 4
You spend 1 point of Fire to make a melee or packet attack for “Silence by Despair.” If you deliver this
attack as a packet, it is a Spell-like Ability.




                                                                                                           44
The Blossom Elves
“We do not bloom to be seen. We bloom because something in us seeks the light.”
The Blossom Elves are the native children of the Kingdom of Roses, descended from ancient Fae who
crossed into the mortal realm through a hidden veil in the Wildwood. Discovering the beauty of the
natural world, the Fae were deeply moved by it that they took on the traits of the flowers they found
most resonant.
These Fae gave up their ephemeral nature and became rooted in the mortal world, shaping their souls to
match their chosen bloom. The first of them were the Rose Elves, who helped lay the foundations of the
kingdom and still guide it today.
All Blossom Elves have the “Elf” trait and their subtype as a trait (i.e., “Rose Elf”, “Nightshade Elf”,
“Jasmine Elf”).
Appearance Requirements: All Blossom Elves have pointed ears and at least one of the following:
    ●​ A green leafy vine on the temple/cheek and clearly visible colorful highlights around the eyes
       (and optionally lips) matching their Heart Bloom color.
    ●​ A blossom or petal pattern matching their Heart Bloom color that is visible at a distance,
       covering at least a 2"x2" area of the cheek or temple.
Optionally, Blossom Elves may also have:
    ●​ Hair that is green or matches their Heart Bloom color.
    ●​ Vines across cheeks, arms, or collarbones.
    ●​ Glitter accents.
Some Blossom Elves choose to wear floral crowns made of their Heart Bloom.
Blossom Elves fall into three broad categories based on their Heart Bloom type.

Rose Elves
    ●​   Heart Bloom Colors: Red or dark pink.
    ●​   Heart Bloom Symbolism: Duty, devotion, sacrifice.
    ●​   Personality: Proud, passionate, protective.
    ●​   Role: Rose Elves make natural leaders and defenders. Within the Kingdom of Roses, most Thorn
         Knights are Rose Elves, though not all Rose Elves take up arms.
Disadvantage: Rose Elves are susceptible to Madness. Whenever you are affected by an attack with the
Madness trait, you take “1 Damage by Will” as an additional effect. This includes both beneficial and
non-beneficial attacks.

Rose’s Promise 2
You may spend 1 Earth to make a melee, missile, or Packet attack for "4 Damage by Thorns." If you
deliver this skill as a packet attack, this is a Spell-like Ability.




                                                                                                           45
Nightshade Elves
    ●​   Heart Bloom Colors: Purple or dark blue.
    ●​   Heart Bloom Symbolism: Truth hidden in shadow, secrets that protect, the cost of knowledge.
    ●​   Personality: Cunning, introspective, enigmatic.
    ●​   Role: Nightshade Elves frequently serve as the Kingdom of Rose’s covert agents, diplomats, and
         poisoners.
Disadvantage: Nightshade Elves are susceptible to Confusion. Whenever you are affected by an attack
with the Confusion trait, you take “1 Damage by Will” as an additional effect. This includes both
beneficial and non-beneficial attacks.

Nightshade’s Touch 2
You spend 1 point of Air to make a melee attack, missile, or packet attack for "Agony by Poison." If you
deliver this skill as a packet attack, this is a Spell-like Ability.

Jasmine Elves
    ●​   Heart Bloom Colors: White, pale yellow, or pale pink.
    ●​   Heart Bloom Symbolism: Serenity, compassion, clarity.
    ●​   Personality: Gentle, intuitive, enduring.
    ●​   Role: Often found among Cupbearers, herbalists, and caretakers, Jasmine Elves bring balance to
         the Kingdom of Roses.
Disadvantage: Jasmine Elves are susceptible to Despair. Whenever you are affected by an attack with the
Despair trait, you take “1 Damage by Will” as an additional effect. This includes both beneficial and
non-beneficial attacks.

Jasmine’s Clarity 3
Spell-like Ability
You may spend 1 Air to make a packet or touch attack for "Cure Mental by Inspiration.”




                                                                                                           46
The Lucent-Bound
“We are the ink in Aurethiel’s pen — written into the margins of the Light.”
Long ago, during the War of Sundering Roads, a cabal of mortal scholars and seers sought to harness
Aurethiel’s divine radiance not through faith, but through arcane shaping. These mystics created binding
rites that infused their bloodlines with radiant aether — arcane echoes of the Light itself. Their
descendants, known as the Lucent-Bound, walk a delicate line: half-scholars, half-miracles. Some see
them as holy vessels; others view their nature as dangerous hubris.
Despite being mortal, their souls burn with radiant threads, allowing them to twist magic and soul
together. Lucent-Bound are often drawn to the Order of the Light Seen or walk strange, solitary Roads of
their own design.

Who Are They?
The Lucent-Bound are Solari born from ancient rites that bound arcane flame to their very souls. Their
bodies shimmer with ethereal energy, and their minds burn with a faint, unyielding glow. Though not
always Cupbearers, they walk paths of knowledge, magic, and discipline, seeking to understand and
shape the divine light that courses through them.

What They Do
The Lucent-Bound serve as scholars, advisors, and protectors of sacred knowledge. Many of them
number among the Order of the Light Seen, hunting down corruption or guiding souls who have lost
their way. Their power flares brightly when they channel the light within them, but that same radiance
can overwhelm.

Appearance Requirements:

    ●​ Arcane glyphs (painted or prosthetic) in pearlescent white, white-gold, or soft violet covering at
       least a 2” x 2” area on the face.
    ●​ Additional options:
           ○​ More glyphs of the same color scheme run along the arms, neck, or collarbone.
           ○​ Pale or luminous body highlights in pearlescent white, white-gold, or soft violet around
                the temples, eyes, collarbones, or fingers.
           ○​ Contact lenses that lighten the eyes.
           ○​ Coloring of the hair, either full or partial, in pearlescent white, white-gold, or soft violet.
    ●​ Note: Those who wish may change their appearance (size and shape of glyphs, colors, locations,
       hair coloring, eye coloring, etc.) from day to day, provided you meet the 2” x 2” minimum
       requirement and remain within the stated color scheme.
Disadvantage: Unstable Conduit.
The Lucent-Bound are susceptible to Light. Whenever you are affected by an effect with the Light trait
(including beneficial effects), you take “1 Damage to Self” as an additional effect.

Lucent Flare 3
You may spend 1 Fire to make a melee, ranged, or packet attack for “3 damage by Light,” or “Heal 3 by
Light.” If you deliver this skill as a packet attack, this is a Spell-like Ability.


                                                                                                           47
The Aethermarked
“We carry the weight of stone, the breath of storm, the hunger of flame — but we walk the Road like any
soul.”
The Aethermarked are mortals shaped by unusual natural events—lightning strikes that didn’t kill them,
nights spent breathing volcanic fumes, or childhoods spent near deep-earth faultlines. They aren’t Fae or
spiritbound; just people changed in ways most can’t explain.
Though blessed with elemental resilience and might, the Aethermarked are deeply aware of the doctrine
of the Sol Road. Many see their lives as a trial: to prove that even life marked by chaos must walk the
Road with discipline, humility, and purpose.

Who Are They?
The Aethermarked are Solari forever changed by the raw forces of earth, fire, water, or air. Whether born
beneath a thunderstorm, amidst volcanic ash, or by a roaring sea, elemental power courses through
their veins. Though touched by chaos, they strive to walk the Road of Light with discipline and purpose,
proving that even elemental chaos answers to Aurethiel’s divine path.

What They Do:
Aethermarked serve as warriors, guardians, and seekers — embodying the power of the elements to
protect the faithful and test their own souls. They balance fierce elemental fury with quiet endurance,
knowing every step on the Road is theirs alone to take.
Appearance Requirements: (At least one of the following)
    ●​ Apparent skin marbling, veining, or fractal patterns in elemental colors (lava-cracked reds, icy
       blues, mossy greens). May be done via body paint, silicone overlays, or layered tattoo effects.
    ●​ Eyeshadow, cheek patterns reflecting a chosen elemental theme.
Disadvantage: As one of the Aethermarked, you are susceptible to Elemental attacks. Choose two of the
following elemental traits: Earth, Fire, Ice, or Lightning. Whenever you are affected by a non-beneficial
attack with those Elemental traits, you take “1 Damage to Self” as an additional effect.

Elemental Fortification 3
You may spend 2 Earth to call out “Resist” to negate one melee, missile, or packet attack with an
Elemental trait.




                                                                                                          48
Factions
Many mercenary companies, guilds, and orders have answered the Mistbound Queen’s call to defend
the Marche of Arkwright against the incursions of the Dominion of Thrymvale. While countless other
factions exist across the realm, all player characters must be members of one of the officially recognized
factions listed below.
Once a player chooses a faction, they gain the faction name as a trait. A player may only be part of one
faction.
Each faction listed below offers three unique headers exclusive to its members. Players are not required
to purchase these headers to join a faction or engage in its storyline. For example, if Sam is a member of
the Ashen Witness and has only purchased the Herald header, they remain an active member of the
Ashen Witness faction and can fully participate in its narrative.

The Ashen Witness
Motto: Armed with Secrets, Bound by Ash​           ​     ​
Symbol: A silver gauntlet on a field of black surrounded by grey wisps of ash curling like smoke

Origins
Shrouded in myth and blood.
The Ashen Witness is said to have risen from the ranks of the last surviving citizens and soldiers of
ancient Tarrin, City of Lore. Legend holds that they endured unspeakable horrors during a years-long
siege at the hands of evil mages, and that when it became clear the city would fall, the scholars set their
sacred library ablaze, remaining within to ensure the enemy wouldn't breach before all was burned to
ash. When the fires died and the screams fell silent, they had succeeded in keeping their vow to keep the
ancient lore of their city out of the hands of evil, no matter the cost. The survivors speak only in hushed
whispers of the secrets they carried out of Tarrin, or how it was done.
With their city razed, they set forth wandering the land, earning a living with the sword. Having fallen far
in the intervening years, this once noble band is now whispered to take in all manner of scum and
outcasts. Nonetheless, they are grudgingly acknowledged across the kingdoms for their ruthlessness,
unwavering loyalty to their own, and terrifying efficiency. Oddly, they are also said to occasionally accept
payment in the form of antiquities, treasure, artifacts, relics, and unique collectibles.
New recruits haven’t been truly accepted until they earn a nickname: informal, irreverent, often ironic.
Fully initiated members burn all their former possessions - except for a single item - in a symbolic
reenactment of the burning of the sacred library. This item becomes their Token and must be carried at
all times and protected with their lives. When they fall, it is retrieved and carried for them by another,
for it is their legacy and how they are remembered.

Common Member Archetypes
Cataphract – Heavily armored shock troops. Leads charges that break lines and morale alike. Equally
comfortable on flanking maneuvers or anchoring the defense at the center of the line. Rare and revered,
their status often opens as many doors as their charges open gaps.
Assassin – Stealthy killers, spies, saboteurs. They often operate in small groups deep behind enemy lines
or in sleeper cells, engaging in deep-cover operations – known for their unflinching nerves and even
steadier hands.


                                                                                                           49
Gladiator – Brash brutes, skilled swordsmen, indebted citizens – any of these might try to change their
fortune in the pits – success and celebrity often bring them into contact with the rich and influential.
Faking it until they make it, scavenged armor, and mismatched weapons are the norm.

Specialist Roles
Ledgerblade – An Assassin-Scholar. She tracks the chain of ownership for every Token in the Ashen
Witness. She is also rumored to have the most contract kills of any assassin, but she refuses to discuss it,
preferring to talk about the exploits of her peers instead.
Ironfile – The Cataphract owes its legendary proof against arms not to strength alone, but also to the
unseen hands of the Ironfiles, who bend matter and marrow alike to their will. These mercurialists
employ harsh methods and biting brews, but the results are undeniable: armor that shrugs off steel and
wounded warriors driven back to their feet when they should be in the grave.
Rustreaver – Born in lean times, the Order’s smiths and tinkers turned scarcity into a weapon. In their
hands, scrap became steel, ruin became edge. Anything – rusted chain, shattered gear, broken blade –
could be reforged into something unexpected and lethal, if not always pretty. Rustreavers are born from
the ingenuity of the desperate: upstart gladiators, hungry sellswords, and gear-obsessed scavengers too
poor for polish but too stubborn to die.

Leadership
The Emberlock – The Master of Siegecraft and Transmutation. The Emberlock is a battlefield engineer
and firestarter. Armed with volatile concoctions, crude bombs, and traps, they are responsible for
shaping the battlefield before the enemy arrives. Known to carry a soot-stained codex of formulas and
tactics, they often operate with a small cadre of apprentices. When cities fall, it is often the Emberlock
who lights the first flame.
The Warden – A stoic bulwark who serves as both keeper and executioner of the oaths and vows of the
Order. Part battlefield judge, part rearguard sentinel, the Warden ensures discipline within the ranks and
defends against ambush or betrayal. Clad in somber plate etched with oaths, they are known to carry
chains, not for prisoners, but for traitors.




                                                                                                             50
The Grey Cloaks
Motto: Where the Storm Goes, We Follow
Symbol: A tree being struck by lightning

Origins
While no formal records, or at least publicly available ones, speak of their founding, tales told in highland
inns and mountain passes suggest that the Grey Cloaks were once just common scouts and guides, the
sort of solitary souls who knew every trail and tree in the mountains and would see the less experienced
safely through the dangers of the wilderness. Over generations, they grew into a loose band of
protectors, bridging the gap between civilization and the wilds.
Neither mercenaries nor militia, the Cloaks are drifting guardians, ghosts appearing from the fog to aid
the wayward in the wild. Their love of the untamed places makes them more likely to welcome a goat or
a roof for winter in payment than a sack of gold. The Grey Cloaks are the quiet heroes of the most
remote villages and homesteads, feared by bandits, respected by wanderers, and quietly appreciated by
nobles and monarchs.
More than simply weather, the Storms are living, primal tempests, thrumming with wild magic. The first
Storm’s arrival is lost to time immemorial; some whisper it was centuries ago, while others say it was
millennia. However old its origin, whatever it may be, when the sky blackens and the first bolts of
warping magic thunder earthward, it is the Grey Cloaks who ride ahead of the gale, warning villages of
the oncoming fury. Then it is the Grey Cloaks who scour the land as the Storm subsides, hunting the
changed beasts and culling the twisted growths left in the wake of the Storm’s maddening touch. When
the Storms are large enough, or their twisted impact great enough, a group of Grey Cloaks may be
needed to turn the tide. These groups, called Levees, are the closest thing to an organized military unit
the Cloaks have.
Beyond the wavering borders of civilization are the Stormlands, a blasted place constantly ravaged by
Storms. It is from here that the wild Storms originate, spinning out into the world. The Stormlands are a
place of unnaturally behaving flora and fauna where vegetation rears up to strangle and pierce,
intelligent-eyed beasts hunt with malice, and a host of other indescribable nightmares reside. Again, it is
the Grey Cloaks who venture forth, culling the twisted herds that threaten to spill out into a world
scarcely prepared to face them.
In years past, the best way to recognize a Cloak was by the wind-tossed storm grey cloak that gave them
their name. Today, not all Cloaks follow this old tradition, choosing instead to remain less overt in their
presentation. Either way, all know that when the wind shifts and the clouds gather, be it figuratively or
literally, a Cloak is not far.

Common Member Archetypes
Beastmaster – Silent hunters and expert skirmishers, Beastmasters move like shadows on the edge of
battle. Masters of terrain, ambush, and guerrilla tactics, they rarely engage head-on, but when they do, it
is with fangs, claws, and fury.
Berserker – The Storm made flesh, Berserkers are front-line warriors who abandon caution for brutal
power, their war cries rise like thunder over the clash of steel. Clad in patched armor and tattered cloaks,
they wield heavy axes, hammers, or two-handed blades with reckless abandon. Though wild in battle,
they are fiercely loyal, often fighting to protect the defenseless.



                                                                                                          51
Storm Caller – With a branch of lightning-struck oak clutched in hand, these potent casters reach into
the heart of the storm - channeling its fury into their foes. Invigorated by the storm, the Storm Caller is
wreathed in power, protecting them from harm and blessing them with speed.

Specialist Roles
Windwarden – Elite scouts and commanders, Windwardens lead the bands of Grey Cloaks called Levees.
They are responsible for guiding Levees through dangerous terrain, predicting weather, and orchestrating
ambushes with uncanny precision. Each Windwarden bears a collection of trophies and carved bone
tokens, representing the Storms they’ve survived and the oaths they’ve kept.
Storm Sage – Storm Sages interpret the winds and read runes from the legacy of stone engravings left by
those who came before. Most Sages remain with the runed stones to study them, while a few join
Levees in their constant roving in hopes of finding more engravings.

Leadership
The Storm Speaker – The Storm Speaker leads when the Grey Cloaks are forced into organized conflict.
Unlike the deliberate methods of a traditional general, the Storm Speaker relies on speed, misdirection,
and sudden violence with a command style that mirrors the chaos of the storm. Chosen not by rank but
by a reputation for cunning and success, the position of Storm Speaker is a soft leadership role, typically
only assuming direct “command” of the Cloaks when situations turn dire. The Speaker’s retinue carries
the Storm Standard, a banner made from what is traditionally held to be the personal cloak of the
order’s founder and decorated with trophies from great battles, not all victories, fought by the Grey
Cloaks.




                                                                                                              52
The Gilded Hart
Motto: Honor rides with us.
Symbol: Silhouette of a front-facing stag with impressive antlers, crowned by a stylized sun giving off rays
of light

Origins
In the arcades of the capital, where smoke hangs heavy above faltering courtiers and weary nobles, a
handful grew restless. They could no longer endure gilded cages nor watch the old virtues of chivalry
fade into hollow ritual. Casting aside their titles, they swore themselves instead to the road, to the cry of
the common folk, and to the defense of the bonds that hold society together. Thus was born the Gilded
Hart.
They ride as free companions – cavaliers sworn to the sword, healers bound by mercy – not for plunder
nor for coin, but to uphold honor, offer solace, and preserve the order of hearth and hall. Their banners
bear the golden stag leaping into dawn, a herald that the rites of kinship, hospitality, and justice endure
still. For while they shine as a beacon of hope in a treacherous age, their deeper purpose lies in guarding
the customs and covenants that keep civilization from sliding into ruin.
Founded by Sir Gavriel Thornhelm, a knight who cast off hollow fealty, and Maerwyn the Green, an
apothecary scarred by war’s toll, the Hart forged a chivalry unbound by feudal chains. They answer the
call of besieged hamlets, border forts, and waylaid travelers, carrying with them not only steel and
remedy, but the unspoken assurance that the world’s fragile fabric of order is not abandoned. Though
they accept coins when it is justly given, their truer payment is found in trust, in shelter shared, and in
the communities that endure because of their stand.
Tyrants dread their arrival, courts regard them with wary respect, and those who glimpse their inner
councils whisper that the fellowship is bound not only by oath and steel, but by a charge to safeguard
the very traditions and rites that give shape to a civilized world.
Code of the Gilded Hart:
    ●​ “Be the flame where darkness lingers, the light where hope is lost.”
    ●​ “Take no coin for cruelty, no rest while the wronged cry out.”
    ●​ “Shield the meek, challenge the ruthless, speak truth unbroken.”

Common Member Archetypes
Apothecary – Learned healers schooled in both battlefield medicine and ancient herb lore, Apothecaries
mend wounds of body and spirit alike. Whether stitching flesh with steady hands or brewing salves at
dawn’s light, they preserve hope in the darkest hours. Many serve as chroniclers of the company’s deeds
and mediators in disputes, ensuring that compassion and wisdom go hand in hand with every blade
drawn.
Cavaliers – Masters of precision, grace, and unwavering resolve, Cavaliers stand as the company’s sword
and shield. In trial-by-combat, they defend the Hart’s honor, escort the vulnerable, and guard those
under the company’s protection. Eschewing mere brute force, they prize skill and discipline, often taking
on the role of instructors to local militias and townsfolk seeking to learn the art of chivalric defense.




                                                                                                              53
Highborn – Born to lineage and courtly refinement, Highborn members wield Manipulation Magics to
protect the weak and tame chaos. Though versed in etiquette and diplomacy, they harness their arcane
gifts, be it veiling wards, compelling truth, or unsettling foes, to ensure the Hart’s mission prevails. Their
presence at banquets and councils often opens closed doors on behalf of struggling villages.

Specialist Roles
Chronicler – Dedicated to preserving the Hart's legacy, Chroniclers serve as meticulous record-keepers,
documenting deeds, oaths, and histories within the guild halls' coded archives. They travel with the
company to chronicle battles and acts of mercy, ensuring that every member's story contributes to the
fellowship's enduring narrative. Beyond mere scribes, they provide logistical support by managing maps,
lineage records, and relic inventories, advising on precedents from past campaigns to guide current
strategies and prevent the repetition of historical follies.
Envoy – As the fellowship's primary diplomats, Envoys navigate the treacherous courts and border
councils, forging alliances and securing safe passage for Hart operations. Clad in azure cloaks
embroidered with the leaping stag, they wield words as finely as a blade, mediating disputes between
rival lords or pleading the cause of the oppressed before indifferent thrones. Their logistical acumen
ensures that missives, gifts, and treaties are delivered with precision, often riding ahead of the company
to prepare the ground for larger interventions, all while upholding the code's mandate to "speak only
truth."
Seneschal – Oversees the inner workings of The Gilded Hart, arranging supplies, securing lodgings, and
managing the company’s coffers. Charged with all matters of diplomacy and correspondence, the
Seneschal negotiates safe passage, brokers alliances among freeholds, and ensures that each mission is
provisioned. Their keen mind for strategy keeps the fellowship’s campaigns both prudent and purposeful.

Leadership
The Knight Marshal – Serving as the company’s chief military strategist, the Knight-Marshal plans
battlefield maneuvers, leads field operations, and trains combat detachments. Whether scouting enemy
positions or advising border lords, they orchestrate the Hart’s martial endeavors – balancing bold
offensives with prudent cautions. In times of crisis, the Knight-Marshal calls banners, marshals resources,
and stands foremost to rally the company under their golden hart sigil.
High Keeper – As the supreme guardian of the Hart's traditions and sanctuaries, the High Keeper
oversees all guild halls, coordinating their Keepers and ensuring the fellowship's hidden rites and relics
remain secure. This role demands a blend of wisdom and vigilance, often involving covert councils to
align the company's deeper mission with its public chivalric face. The High Keeper, robed in gilded
antler-etched attire, arbitrates internal disputes and renews oaths across the network, embodying the
motto "Honor rides with us" by fostering unity amid the fellowship's roaming independence.




                                                                                                             54
The Veilward Enclave
Moto: Wisdom, knowledge​         ​
Symbol: A raven perched on an open tome, crowned with flame​

Origins
Shrouded in secrecy and whispered of in hushed tones, the Veilward Enclave’s true beginnings lie lost in
forgotten tomes and half-burned scrolls. Though no outsider can pinpoint when or where the order first
took shape, all agree on one grim fact: those who join the enclave become the guardians of the light
against the dark, sanity against madness. Its members are changed by their experiences, their haunted
eyes and tight lips set them apart. Isolated from those they protect, they are held in a sort of mournful
reverence; for whatever the individual’s reason for joining the Enclave may be, that decision is equal
parts willingness to stand vigil and equal parts willingness to leave the “normal” world behind. The
Enclave’s agents move through a different world, knowing more about what lurks beyond the everyday.
They are part mercenary, part arcane scholar, forever altered by hidden rituals and eldritch tutelage. In a
realm wounded by ceaseless conflict and rampant superstition, the Veilward Enclave stands at the nexus
of martial prowess, forbidden lore, and arcane might, seeking to bend fate through ancient wisdom,
sometimes fighting just to buy the world one more sunrise.
Edgecliff, the Enclave’s headquarters, is perched high on a clifftop above the ocean. A sprawling manor,
replete with darkened corners, this place houses the library, referred to simply as “the Archives,” a
mysterious repository accessible only to members of the order. Within the Archives’ quiet, echoing
chambers, the Archivists catalogue and preserve tomes, grimoires, and scrolls for safekeeping,
containment, study, or all of the above.

Common Member Archetypes
Chimera – Lethal yet elusive, these poison-wielders vanish as quickly as they appear, leaving foes undone
in mind and body alike. Chimera are known for sowing confusion with alchemical gases and spectral
mirages.
Investigator – A combination of conjurer and occult warrior, the Investigator is dedicated to uncovering
hidden truths. They track the arcane signatures left by the otherworldly, reinforce the eldritch wards that
hold back the tides of corruption, and bring hope to the fearful with their stalwart resolve. Armed with
swords to back up their ritual daggers and ciphered grimoires, they probe cursed sites, interrogate
tainted spirits, and unravel forbidden enchantments. No mystery is too deep nor riddle too dangerous
for their relentless pursuit of knowledge.
Arcanist – If the Investigator is the field agent, then the Arcanist is the master librarian poring over
tomes, wringing the last secrets from their pages. They represent the structured knowledge gained
through disciplined study and research. With this study comes a true understanding of the wheeling of
the heavens and of the powers beyond them. Spells and rituals, unlike any others, are available for the
Enclave’s use solely because of the Arcanist's mastery. Each spell is etched into the mind through
fire-borne sigils, acquired grimoires, and harsh trials. These are not cloistered scholars, nor reckless
battlemages, but balanced wielders of Manipulation and Evocation; their skills make them as effective in
the field as in the stacks.




                                                                                                         55
Specialist Roles
Archivist – The preservation, study, and containment of the material stored within the Archives falls to
the Archivists. They are trained in the handling of fragile and dangerous manuscripts. Many Archivists are
retired members of the various arms of the Enclave who have become too frail of body or of mind, due
to their efforts in the field.
Tome Seeker – Tome Seekers are responsible for tracking down and acquiring material for the Archives.
The duties of a Seeker can involve navigating dusty, warded, haunted locations or retrieving a tome that
has fallen into the wrong hands, be they innocent or malicious.
Veilwarden – Sentinels of the boundary between worlds, Veilwardens maintain the fragile barrier that
separates the material plane from realms of shadow and spirit. Armed with ethereal lances and ritual
lanterns, they patrol the haunted liminal spaces: abandoned crypts, mist-shrouded forests, and ancient
ley-line intersections, sealing ruptures where wraiths and phantoms might break through. When planar
rifts threaten to release chaos into the world, it is the Veilwardens who stand guard with their warding
chants and sigils, holding back the encroaching void.

Leadership
The Curator – The highest authority within the Veilward Enclave, the Curator unites scholarly pursuit and
martial strategy. Acting as both head archivist and commander, the Curator oversees all operations,
ensuring that every research project, mission, and ritual aligns with the Enclave’s pursuit of wisdom and
knowledge.




                                                                                                       56
Skills
Skills define the measure of your knowledge and training. To simulate various levels of skills, there are
certain activities that the game does not allow you to attempt if you do not have the skill for them. If a
skill exists for a certain type of activity or to manipulate a certain type of prop, then you may not attempt
that action unless you have that skill or a specific ability that allows you to do so.

Using some skills exhausts one or more points of your attributes. If you cannot exhaust these points
because you do not have enough points left, then you cannot use that skill. These points are removed
temporarily from the attribute in question.

Anyone may purchase Open skills. You must purchase a Header before purchasing skills under that
Header.

Some skills have additional requirements that must be met before they can be purchased; these are
described in the skill's description. You cannot purchase a skill or spell twice, even if you have access to
that skill in multiple headers.

You may not attempt an action that requires a skill unless you possess that skill or a specific ability
that allows it. This includes the use of particular props or the performance of specific in-game tasks.

Once you begin playing a character, you accumulate more character points and may purchase additional
skills.

Skills not listed in this book are referred to as hidden skills. You cannot purchase hidden skills unless you
receive training in that skill from someone who has already purchased the skill. Players who learn hidden
skills should clarify with Staff if they are capable of teaching others.

Skills are organized under headers that represent the foundational training required to use those skills.

    ●​ Open skills are not tied to a header and can be purchased by any character without
       prerequisites.
    ●​ You must purchase a header before purchasing any skills it contains.
    ●​ Acquiring a header also grants you a trait matching the header’s name (e.g., purchasing Warrior
       Skills gives you the Warrior trait).
    ●​ No Duplicate Purchases: You cannot purchase the same skill or spell more than once, even if it
       appears under multiple headers. These duplicated skills or spells are only considered purchased
       under the first header for purposes of other skills or prerequisites.
    ●​ Requirements: Some skills have prerequisites listed in their descriptions.
    ●​ Repeatable Skills: Skills marked with an asterisk (*) may be purchased multiple times. Each
       additional purchase enhances the skill’s effect or expands its capabilities. You must pay the full
       cost each time. Some of these skills have a purchase limit, noted in the skill’s description.
    ●​ Attribute Costs: Many skills require you to spend points from one or more attributes. If you lack
       sufficient attribute points, you cannot use the skill. These points are temporarily removed from
       the relevant attribute.




                                                                                                           57
Information Skills
Information skills allow you to pursue answers to questions between events. Each information skill has
some in-game sources that research the question and provide whatever answers they can. Your question
is answered from their perspective and in the best manner they can pursue it. To use an information skill,
you must maintain a good relationship with these sources.

You submit your question to the Staff between events. The question must be relevant to your sources
and one that your sources could reasonably pursue. The best way to submit questions is to email the
question as plain text in the body of the message to the Staff. To allow Staff sufficient time to respond,
information skills must be submitted no later than two weeks after the event.

Each Player may submit one information skill per event they attend.

Some information skills require payment to use. This money is submitted at check-in for the next event.

    ●​ 2 silver for a normal question.
    ●​ 5 silver for a hard or delicate question.
    ●​ 10 silver (1 gold) for an obscure or dangerous question.
More money than this is generally wasted, although a contact may suggest that pursuing certain obscure
or dangerous lines of inquiry would be expensive.

You are not guaranteed a response, and it may take more than one event to receive one. Submitting a
question that is not relevant to your sources dramatically reduces your chances of receiving a meaningful
answer. If you are seeking answers to difficult or obscure questions, you may have to use the skill more
than once to pursue the answers.

If you submit a new question before receiving an answer, the previous question is forgotten, and the
sources are redirected to the new one. Asking a question to inappropriate sources might cause trouble
for you. Your answer comes in one of three ways: a written response between events, a verbal or written
response at the opening of an event before it starts, or a contact might find you in-game to deliver some
piece of knowledge related to your question.

If you submit an information skill question and do not receive an answer, you are empowered. During
your next event, you may make a melee, missile, or packet attack for “5 Damage by Will.” This ability is
refreshed whenever you spend Void to refresh your attributes.




                                                                                                             58
Open Skills
Archery 1
You are skilled in the use of bows and crossbows. You have a quiver of 10 arrows that you use for
uncalled missile attacks. You refresh your quiver to 10 by spending one minute of Focus cleaning and
fletching another set of arrows. Arrow attacks that have a verbal due to a skill or enhancement do not
count against your quiver of uncalled attacks.
If an attack strikes the bow prop, you take the effect as if the attack had struck your limb. This hit also
snaps the bow string and makes the bow unable to fire arrows until you spend 3 seconds of Focus to
replace the bow string.
You may not, under any circumstances, strike an opponent with your bow.

Celerity 2
You may Focus for 1 minute to gain 2 non-physical armor points. You may also Focus for 1 minute to
refresh all your armor points.
You cannot use this skill if you are already protected by armor points, and these points are lost if you put
on or activate any other armor or ability that gives you armor points.

Clubs 0
You may use Club melee weapons to make attacks and to block melee and missile attacks in combat.

Combat Momentum 2
When making an called damage attack of 4 or more using an Ax or Hammer, you may increase the
damage of the attack by 1.

Craftsman 1*
You may purchase this skill multiple times, specifying a different craft for each purchase.
You have a craft that allows you to make a living. This skill provides money at the beginning of each
event. You may also sell props related to your chosen craft for in-game money.

Diagnose 0
You may touch a recipient with a packet and call Diagnose for any Elemental, Metabolic, Mental, or
Physical group or any of their underlying traits. You may also use Diagnose on any effect except Imbue
and Inflict. You may also use Diagnose to determine if the recipient is currently Stable, Unstable, Dead,
Stress, or Damage.




                                                                                                              59
First Aid 1
This skill requires one minute of Focus on a willing or helpless target. You role-play administering
medicines and bandaging wounds to prevent someone from dying of blood loss or repair their Maimed
limb. You must have both arms free to use this skill.
When you begin to use this skill, call "First Aid" (if they are Unstable, this pauses their count between
Unstable and Death). When the 1 minute of Focus is complete, say either:
    ●​ “Stabilize."
    ●​ "Cure Maim [Limb]" to remove the Maim from the indicated limb.
This skill can be used for either effect, but you cannot perform both effects at the same time.
This skill requires the use of both arms, but, you may use this skill with one arm to fix your other arm.

Fumble 0
When you take a Disarm effect, you may call “Reduce” and spend 3 seconds of roleplay trying to keep
control of the item instead of dropping the item on the ground. You may not attack or block with the
item during this time.

Light Armor 0
You may wear physical armor and gain 2 points of Armor. You may also Focus for 1 minute to repair all
your Armor points.

Melee Weapon 1*
You may use one type of melee weapon to make attacks and to block melee and missile attacks in
combat. You may purchase this skill additional times to use a different weapon type.
The weapon types are Axes, Hammers, Polearms, Spears, Staves, and Swords.
NOTE: Some exotic melee weapon types are not included in these groups (i.e., Claws, Glaives).

Thrown Weapon 1
You are skilled in the use of thrown weapons. You may carry up to 3 thrown weapons on your person.
You use thrown weapons to make Missile (Props) attacks.
When you pick up a thrown weapon after it has been used, you must spend 10 seconds cleaning the dirt
and blood off the weapon, sharpening it, and checking the balance before you use it again. You may,
however, clean all your thrown weapons in one 10-second session.

“With Desperation….” 0
Twice per event, you can ignore the attribute cost of a skill when you use it. Add “With Desperation…”
before the verbal. You gain a point of Stress regardless of whether the skill succeeds. This skill does not
give you extra uses of skills that are limited to once per event. If your stress is already at 5, you cannot
use this skill.




                                                                                                            60
Headers
Acrobat Skills 4
Back to Guard 2
While wielding a melee weapon, you may spend 1 point of Water to call out "Disengage."

Daring 2
You may spend 1 point of Fire to call “Resist” to negate one attack based on Madness or Fear.
Alternatively, you may spend 2 Fire to call out “Resist” to negate one attack that inflicts stress.

Death Defying 2
Twice per event, when you have no Vitality, you may call out "Heal to Self." This ability is only usable
while unconscious (stable or unstable).

Duck For Cover 4
You may spend 3 points of Water to call out “Avoid” to negate any one missile or packet attack.

Escape Artist 2
You may spend 3 seconds and 1 point of Water to call out “Purge” to end one Paralyze, Root, or Slow
effect with a Physical trait.
Alternatively, you may spend 3 seconds and 2 points of Water to slip shackle props off your body and end
that effect.

Evasive 3
Prerequisite: Celerity
Celerity now provides 3 armor points.

Juggler's Dexterity 2
If you catch a missile attack (arrow or thrown weapon) with an empty hand, you may call "Avoid" to
negate its effect. You may not wear any glove that increases your hand size.
Additionally, if you have purchased the Thrown Weapon skill, you may then immediately make a missile
(prop) attack at the original attacker for “2 Damage.”

Improved Evasive 3
Prerequisite: Evasive or Mystic Armor
Celerity now provides 4 armor points.




                                                                                                           61
Leveraged Block 1
While wielding a two-handed melee weapon and one of your arms is affected by a Maim effect, you may
call “Reduce.” You cannot attack, but you can block attacks as usual, and use game skills that allow you to
call out a Defense and require you to be using a melee weapon. You cannot use this skill again until the
Maim is cured. The ability to block ends if your other arm takes a Maim, or you take a second Maim to
the first arm before you receive a “Cure Maim.”

Limber 3
You spend 1 point of Earth to call “Avoid” to negate an effect caused by a physical challenge. After using
this skill, you must immediately remove yourself from the surface or challenge by going back the way
you came. If you linger in place after using this skill, you take the effect.
Examples include: stepping off a platform into something nasty, mistakenly touching a web or other
dangerous surface, or brushing up against something you shouldn't. This skill allows you to avoid one
effect indicated by a yellow triangle.
This skill does not prevent any effect delivered by an actual player, a trap, or contact poison.

Spinning Strike 2
While fighting with a staff or one-handed club, you may spend 1 point of Water to gain 3 melee attacks
for "2 Damage.” Any remaining attacks are lost at the end of the event or when you refresh attributes
with Void.

Staggering Strike 4
While wielding a staff or one-handed club, you may spend 2 points of Earth to make a melee attack for
"Weakness.”

Tumbling 1
Prerequisite: Duck for Cover
You may spend 3 points of Water to call out “Avoid” to negate any one melee attack.

Side Step 1
Once per event, you may call “Avoid and Refresh 2 Water to Self” to negate a missile or packet attack.




                                                                                                         62
Apothecary Skills 4
Prerequisite: You must be a member of The Gilded Hart to purchase this header
Characters with the Apothecary header gain the Arcane trait. All spells purchased under this header are
arcane spells.

Aura of Healing 4
Spell-like Ability
You cannot purchase this skill if you have Aura of the Herald or Aura of Vengeance.
You gain 3 points of a pool of healing energy. You may spend a point from this pool to make a touch
attack for "Heal by Will." For each spell purchased under this header, the pool gains 1 point, up to a
maximum of 10.
The points from your pool may be refreshed by spending 1 minute of Rest in an area dedicated to
resting, such as the tavern or your cabin, or an area marked safe to refresh this skill. There is no limit to
the number of times you may refresh these points.

Apothecary’s Blade 2
This skill allows you to hold and use a one-handed sword while you are casting spells, overriding the
restriction that casting requires both hands to be empty. You must have the skill with the weapon in
question to use this ability.

Battlefield First Aid 1
Prerequisite: First Aid
The time required for you to use First Aid to stabilize or cure a Maim effect is reduced to 30 seconds.

Battlefield Medicine 1
Prerequisite: Aura of Healing
To use this skill, you must carry a Medicine bag that contains vials and bandages.
You may spend a minute of Focus preparing bandages and mixing potions from your medicine bag. At
the end of this Focus, you refresh all of the healing pool received from Aura of Healing. This focus is not
limited to a designated area for rest.

Bottled Toxin 4
You may spend 10 seconds of Focus applying poison to your weapon, spend 1 point of Earth to call
"Imbue by Toxin," and gain 2 melee attacks for “ 3 damage by Poison.” Any remaining strikes are lost
when the event ends or when you refresh attributes.

Buckler 2
You can use a buckler to block melee and missile attacks. Your primary weapon cannot be longer than
46” while using a buckler, and you can only use one buckler or shield at any time.




                                                                                                            63
Evasive 3
Prerequisite: Celerity
Celerity now provides 3 armor points.

Compartmentalize 1
You may spend 1 point of Fire to call “Resist” and temporarily negate one point of stress. The next time
you use Void to rest your attribute, all Inflict Stress effects negated by this skill take effect.

The Dose Makes the Poison 1
Spell-like Ability
Once per event, call out “Imbue by Poison” and gain 5 packet attacks for “2 Damage by Poison.”

Elixir Vitae 3
Spell-like Ability
You may spend 1 point of Air to make a touch attack for "Heal 3 by Vapor."

A Little Something Extra 2
You may fight with a medium melee weapon in your off-hand while fighting with a 46” weapon in your
primary hand.

Preventive Medicine 1
Once per event, you may call out “Resist” to negate an attack with an effect or trait that you could cure
with a Restoration spell.

The Sphere of Restoration 2
You may purchase spells from the Restoration sphere.

Toxic Exposure 4
You may spend 2 points of Fire to call “Resist and Heal 1 to Self” to negate one Melee, Missile, or Packet
attack with a Metabolic trait.




                                                                                                        64
Arcanist Skills 4
Prerequisite: You must be a member of The Veilward Enclave to purchase this header
Characters with the Arcanist header gain the Arcane trait. All spells purchased under this header are
arcane spells.

Arcane Conduit 1
Spell-like Ability
Once per event, you may call out “Imbue by Arcane.” Your next three damage packet attacks with an
Elemental trait have the damage increased by 3.

Arcane Flux 1
At the beginning of the event, place an ornate goblet, bowl, bag, or other container in your Cabin. Place
two counters (i.e., stones, gems, or crystals) into the container for each spell you have purchased from
this header.
When you spend a minute resting in your Arcane Sanctum, you may take out and exhaust one counter to
choose two offensive Arcane spells that cost 1 attribute point to cast. These cannot have a beneficial
effect. You are empowered with the energy to cast each of these Arcane spells once without attribute
cost. You can choose the same spell twice if you wish. Using this skill removes any previously empowered
spells if those also came from this skill.

Duck For Cover 4
You may spend 3 points of Water to call out “Avoid” to negate any one missile or packet attack.

Force Bolts 1
Spell-like Ability
You have a pool of 10 magical force bolts that you use for uncalled missile attacks. You refresh your pool
to 10 by spending one minute of Focus gathering magical energy.

Force Shield 3
You may spend 2 points of Fire to call out “Resist” to negate one melee, missile, or packet attack with a
Physical trait.

Leveraged Block 1
While wielding a two-handed melee weapon and one of your arms is affected by a Maim effect, you may
call “Reduce.” You cannot attack, but you can block attacks as usual, and use game skills that allow you to
call out a Defense and require you to be using a melee weapon. You cannot use this skill again until the
Maim is cured. The ability to block ends if your other arm takes a Maim, or you take a second Maim to
the first arm.




                                                                                                        65
Spellbound 1
Your offensive spells that fail to harm the target are not truly expended. When you throw a
packet-delivered spell, if it does not hit anyone, or the target calls No Effect, Spirit, or Avoid to negate it,
that spell is bound to you. If you spend one minute of Focus, regathering magical energies to you, then
you regain the attributes spent to cast these bound spells.
Spellbound may only be used for spells purchased under headers with this skill. These spells must be
non-beneficial and cost attributes; per-event spells may not be Spellbound. When you rest to refresh
Void, you lose any bound spells and can no longer regain those attributes.

The Sphere of Manipulation 2
You may purchase spells from the Manipulation sphere.

The Sphere of Evocation 2
You may purchase spells from the Evocation sphere

Strong Willed 1
You may spend 1 point of Fire to call out “Resist” to negate one attack with the Will trait. Alternatively,
you may spend 2 Fire to call out “Resist” to negate one attack that inflicts stress.

Weapon of the Arcane 2
Prerequisite: any Melee Weapon skill
You may hold a two-handed weapon while you are casting spells, overriding the restriction that casting
requires both hands to be empty.




                                                                                                              66
Archer Skills 3
Prerequisite: Archery
Note: When making a called missile attack, the attribute cost is spent only if the strike lands and the
opponent acknowledges it with role-play or negates it with a defense.

Evasive 3
Prerequisite: Celerity
Celerity now provides 3 armor points.

The Crucial Shot 1
You may spend 1 point of Air to make a missile attack for "5 Damage.”

A Disarming Shot 2
You may spend 1 point of Water to make a missile attack for "Disarm [Limb].”

Duck For Cover 4
You may spend 3 points of Water to call out “Avoid” to negate any one missile or packet attack.

Exploited Opening 1
Once per event, you may call out “Imbue by Precision.” For one encounter, you may change the delivery
method of any missile attack bought under this header to melee attacks.

A Flurry of Arrows 2
While wielding a bow, you may spend 1 point of Fire to gain 2 missile attacks for "2 Damage.” Any
remaining attacks are lost when the event ends or when you refresh attributes.

From Ash To Iron 4
You may block melee attacks with the bow. If an attack strikes the bow prop, it snaps the bow string and
makes the bow unable to fire arrows until you spend 3 seconds of Focus to replace the bow string.
The Staff must approve your bow prop as a parrying weapon.
You may not, under any circumstances, strike an opponent with your bow prop.

Improved Quiver 1
Your quiver size is increased to 20 arrows that you use for uncalled missile attacks.

Last Line of Defense 2
Prerequisite: From Ash to Iron
While wielding your bow, you may spend 2 points of Earth to call out “Parry” to negate any melee attack
that strikes you. This snaps the bow string and makes the bow unable to fire arrows until you spend 3
seconds of Focus to replace the bow string.




                                                                                                          67
Refresh Quiver 1
You may spend 1 point of Earth to call out “Refresh Arrows by Inspiration” to regain all the arrows in your
quiver as if you spent 1 minute of focus.

Shooting the Nerve 2
You may spend 1 point of Air to make a missile attack for "Agony."

Threatening Aim 4
You may prepare an arrow and point at an opponent with the index finger of your bow hand, spend 1
point of Fire to call out "By My Gesture, Repel by Fear.” You may maintain the gesture until you make an
attack, change targets, or take a damaging attack that you do not negate with a defense. If you make an
attack, you must pull the bow back and point it upwards to show that the effect has ended.

The Wind's Edge 2
Prerequisite: From Ash to Iron
While wielding your bow in one hand, in your other hand, you may use up to a long one-handed melee
weapon you are skilled in using.




                                                                                                        68
Assassin Skills 5
Prerequisite: You must be a member of The Ashen Witness to purchase this header.
Note: To use skills “from behind” a target, you must be behind them and able to see both of their
shoulder blades.

Ambush 1
Once per event, you may make a melee attack from behind the target for “Stun.” You must have both
feet planted to use this skill. If your target negates this attack with a defense other than Reduce, gain 2
melee attacks for “6 damage” that can be used only against that target.

Back to Guard 2
While wielding a melee weapon, you may spend 1 point of Water to call out "Disengage."

Evasive 3
Prerequisite: Celerity
Celerity now provides 3 armor points.

Cheap Shot 2
If you see an Agony strike an opponent, and they are role-playing the effect, you may deliver a single
attack using the skill A Knife in the Back as if you were behind them. You must expend the attributes for
A Knife in the Back as usual. If the opponent Purges the Agony, stops the role play, or attacks another
character, you lose the opportunity to use this skill.

A Crippling Blow 1
You may spend 2 points of Earth to make a melee attack for "Maim" and strike a limb.

Improved Evasive 3
Prerequisite: Evasive or Mystic Armor
Celerity now provides 4 armor points.

A Knife in the Back 1
You may spend 1 point of Water to make a melee attack from behind a target for “6 Damage.” You must
have your feet planted.
If your Shiv skill is currently active, you may instead call “Double 3 Damage.”

Know Your Tools 1
Twice per event, you may call out “Resist” to negate one attack with the Poison trait.

A Little Something Extra 2
You may fight with a medium melee weapon in your off-hand while fighting with a 46” weapon in your
primary hand.




                                                                                                              69
The Twin Threat 2
Prerequisite: A Little Something Extra
This skill allows you to use any one-handed melee weapon in your off-hand.

Mask of Deception 3
While wearing dark clothing and masked or hooded, you may spend 1 point of Fire to Resist an Expose
effect silently.

Shiv 5
You may perform 1 minute of Focus to enter an offensive stance, making you deadlier when behind
enemies. Once in this stance, when you make melee attacks from behind a target, you may call “2
Damage.”
A successful non-beneficial attack on you ends this state, even if you negate it with a defense. You may
reenter this state again with 1 minute of Focus.

Striking the Nerve 2
You may spend 1 point of Air to make a melee attack for "Agony."

Throat Slit 3
You may spend 1 point of Fire to make a melee attack from behind your target for “Silence.”
(Do not strike the throat; the name of the skill is for flavor only.)

The Walls Have Ears 3
Information Skill
You have learned how to use the darker side of society to dig up rumors and information that people
may have learned in the course of their "normal" business. You may hear rumors or tales about things
other groups have seen and jobs they might have been hired for.
This information skill requires you to spend money. Submit a question between events as described in
the Information Skills section above. If the question is appropriate for this dangerous element, you may
receive a relevant answer to your question.




                                                                                                           70
Beastmaster Skills 4
Prerequisite: You must be a member of The Grey Cloaks to purchase this header
You draw strength and magical power from your affinity with natural beasts. You manifest powers by
drawing on your bestial nature.

Armed as the Hunter 2
This skill allows you to grow and retract claws from both hands. You may fight with a long claw in each
hand to make melee attacks and block melee and missile attacks. For skills, Claws are a type of melee
weapon. You may not fight with claws and other weapons or a buckler or shield. The time it takes to
prepare the claws or put them away is the same as the time it takes to grow or retract the claws.

Back to Guard 2
While wielding claws, you may spend 1 point of Water to call out "Disengage."

Evasive 3
Prerequisite: Celerity
Celerity now provides 3 armor points.

Claw Frenzy 2
While wielding claws, you may spend 1 point of Earth to make a melee attack for "6 Damage.”

Claws Like Lightning 2
While wielding claws, you may spend 1 point of Water to gain 2 melee attacks for "2 Damage.” Any
remaining attacks are lost when the event ends or when you refresh attributes.

Combat Anticipation 3
You may spend 3 seconds and 1 point of Air to call out “Purge” to end one Agony or Maim effect.

Heart of the Lion 1
You may spend 1 point of Fire to call out “Resist” to negate one attack with the Fear trait. Alternatively,
you may spend 2 Fire to call out “Resist” to negate one attack that inflicts Stress.

Invigorated 1
Once per event, when you are affected by an attack with the Poison, Lightning, or Thunder trait, you may
call out “Refresh 4 Earth to Self”.

Last Stand 1
Once per event, you may call out “Resist by Will” to negate a melee attack.

Mark for Death 4
While wielding claws, you may spend 3 points of Earth to make a melee attack for "Stricken."




                                                                                                          71
Nature's Renewal 1
While cloaked in nature (touching a tree or there are multiple trees between you and any visible
buildings), you may use a Void to refresh your attributes with 1 minute of Focus instead of 5. You may
not use this skill again until you Rest for 5 minutes in the tavern building.

No Escaping the Hunt 3
While wielding claws, you may spend 1 point of Water to make a melee attack for "Slow” or gain 2 melee
attacks for ”Short Slow.” Any remaining strikes are lost when the event ends or when you refresh
attributes.

Resilience 2
You may spend 3 seconds of Focus and 1 point of Water to call out "Heal 3 to Self."




                                                                                                         72
Berserker Skills 4
Prerequisite: You must be a member of The Grey Cloaks to purchase this header

Back to Guard 2
While wielding a melee weapon, you may spend 1 point of Water to call out "Disengage."

Evasive 3
Prerequisite: Celerity
Celerity now provides 3 armor points.

Combat Anticipation 3
You may spend 3 seconds and 1 point of Air to call out “Purge” to end one Agony or Maim effect.

Critical Strike 2
You spend 1 point of Earth to make a melee attack for "5 Damage."

Crushing the Shield 1
Once per event, while wielding a two-handed sword, axe, or hammer, you may strike an opponent's
shield and call "Shield Slam.”
This attack throws you off balance as well. After using this skill, you must step back and cannot advance
on that opponent for 3 seconds.

Empowered By Storm 1
Once per event, you may call out “Reduce” to negate one attack with the Thunder or Lightning trait. If
you negate an attack with this skill, you call out “Heal All to Self” and gain two melee attacks for “2
Damage.”

A Flurry of Strikes 2
You may spend 1 point of Water to gain 2 melee attacks for “2 Damage.” Any remaining attacks are lost
when the event ends or when you refresh attributes.

Got No Time to Bleed 3
Prerequisite: Just That Tough
While wielding a two-handed weapon, you may spend 1 point of Earth to call out “Resist” to negate one
Disarm effect.
While wielding a two-handed weapon, you may spend 2 points of Earth to call out “Resist” to negate one
melee strike to the torso.

Heart of the Lion 1
You may spend 1 point of Fire to call out “Resist” to negate one attack with the Fear trait. Alternatively,
you may spend 2 Fire to call out “Resist” to negate one attack that inflicts stress.




                                                                                                          73
Just That Tough 2
You may spend 2 points of Earth to call out “Resist” to negate one melee attack that strikes you or any
attack with the “Maim” effect.

Last Stand 1
Once per event, you may call out “Resist by Will” to negate a melee attack.

Leveraged Block 1
While wielding a two-handed melee weapon and one of your arms is affected by a Maim effect, you may
call “Reduce.” You cannot attack, but you can block attacks as usual, and use game skills that allow you to
call out a Defense and require you to be using a melee weapon. You cannot use this skill again until the
Maim is cured. The ability to block ends if your other arm takes a Maim, or you take a second Maim to
the first arm.

Mindless Rage 3
You may spend 2 points of Fire to call out “Resist” to negate one melee, missile, or packet attack with a
Mental trait.

Resilience 2
You may spend 3 seconds of Focus and 1 point of Water to call out "Heal 3 to Self."

Strength of the Bear 5
If you are using a two-handed melee weapon to deliver a called damaging attack purchased under this
header, you may increase the damage amount by 2. Additionally, you may spend 3 seconds and 2 points
of Water to call out “Purge” to end one effect with a Physical trait, except Repel and Inflict.

Strike of Fury 2
Once per event, while wielding a two-handed weapon, you may make a melee attack for "10 Damage."
If the attack is negated with a defense, including “Spirit” or “No Effect,” the skill is not exhausted. You
may use it again after 1 minute of Rest.

The Will To Live 1
Once per event, you may call out “Reduce” to a Death effect and instead become Unstable with no
Vitality or Armor.
This skill does not work against a Death Strike, nor does it protect you if you die from bleeding out. You
may use this skill even if you are unconscious.




                                                                                                              74
Cataphract Skills 5
Prerequisite: You must be a member of The Ashen Witness to purchase this header.

Armored for War 2*
You may purchase this skill up to 2 times.
Each time you buy this skill, the number of Armor points you may gain from an armor prop is increased
by 1. You must wear a proper armor prop to use this skill.

Back to Guard 2
While wielding a melee weapon, you may spend 1 point of Water to call out "Disengage."

Battlefield Repair 3
You may spend 3 seconds of Focus and 1 point of Water to call out "Repair 3 Armor to Self.”

Buckler 2
You can use a buckler to block melee and missile attacks. Your primary weapon cannot be longer than
46” while using a buckler, and you can only use one buckler or shield at any time.

Combat Anticipation 3
You may spend 3 seconds and 1 point of Air to call out “Purge” and end one Agony or Maim effect.

A Desperate Defense 2
While wielding a melee weapon you are skilled with, you may spend 2 points of Earth to call out “Parry”
to negate a melee attack that strikes you.

Enrage 4
You may spend 2 Fire to make a melee attack for “Short Frenzy.”

Meticulous Upkeep 4
You may spend 1 point of Fire to call “Resist” and negate one attack for “Destroy.”
Additionally, you call “No Effect” to all Destroy Armor effects.

Press the Attack 3
When receiving a “Heal” effect from another player, you may call “Increase” and add 1 to the amount of
healing provided.

Push the Room 1
Once per event, call out “Imbue by Strength” and gain 5 melee attacks for “2 Damage.”




                                                                                                      75
Shield 2
Prerequisite: Buckler
This skill allows you to use a full-sized shield to block melee and missile attacks. You cannot throw
packet-delivered effects while you have a full-sized shield in your hand. Your primary weapon cannot be
longer than 46” while using a shield, and you can only use one buckler or shield at any time.

A Steel Shell 3
Prerequisite: 2 purchases of Armored for War.
When you are wearing an armor prop worth 4 points, and you spend 1 minute repairing it, you gain a
“Guard” defense to negate the first melee attack with the Agony, called Damage, or Maim effect that
strikes you.

Strengthened Armor 5
Prerequisite: 2 purchases of Armored for War.
The number of Armor points you may gain from an armor prop is increased by 1. You must have a proper
armor prop to use this skill.




                                                                                                      76
Cavalier Skills 4
Prerequisite: You must be a member of The Gilded Hart to purchase this header.

Always Prepared to Fight 3
When you are about to engage in a formal duel that all participants have accepted, you may spend 1
point of Fire to refresh your Attribute points temporarily. The conditions of the duel must be agreed
upon by all parties and cause blood to be drawn. There can be no one else on your side. You must fight
alone, although you are free to duel multiple opponents.
During the duel, you may not use beneficial effects on others. Beneficial effects you use on yourself end
when the duel ends, unless they are Heal or Cure effects. Vitality is not affected by the start or end of
this ability.
When the duel has finished, your Attributes go back to what they were right after you spent 1 Fire to
activate this ability. If the duel is interrupted or someone steps in on either side who was not one of the
participants, the duel ends, and your Attributes are reset.

Armored for War 2*
You may purchase this skill up to 2 times.
Each time you buy this skill, the number of Armor points you may gain from an armor prop is increased
by 1. You must wear a proper armor prop to use this skill.

Back to Guard 2
While wielding a melee weapon, you may spend 1 point of Water to call out "Disengage."

Buckler 2
You can use a buckler to block melee and missile attacks. Your primary weapon cannot be longer than
46” while using a buckler, and you can only use one buckler or shield at any time.

The Clumsy Shield 2
Prerequisite: Always Prepared to Fight.
To use this skill, you must be in a formal duel where you have used Always Prepared to Fight, and you
must not be fighting with a full-sized shield.
Once per duel, you may call “Avoid” to negate one attack from an opponent wielding a full-sized shield.

Combat Anticipation 3
You may spend 3 seconds and 1 point of Air to call out “Purge” and end one Agony or Maim effect.

A Crippling Blow 1
You may spend 2 Earth to make a melee attack for "Maim" and strike a limb.

A Desperate Defense 2
While wielding a melee weapon you are skilled with, you may spend 2 points of Earth to call out “Parry”
to negate a melee attack that strikes you.



                                                                                                          77
Evasive 3
Prerequisite: Celerity.
Celerity now provides 3 armor points.

Flashing Blades 2
While wielding a sword, you may spend 1 point of Water to gain 2 melee attacks for “2 Damage.” Any
remaining attacks are lost when the event ends or when you refresh attributes.

A Glancing Blow 1
Once per event, you may call out “Imbue by Resilience” and call out “Elude” for the next 3 called melee
attacks that hit you to negate these attacks.

Heart of the Lion 1
You may spend 1 point of Fire to call out “Resist” to negate one attack with the Fear trait. Alternatively,
you may spend 2 Fire to call out “Resist” to negate one attack that inflicts stress.

Improved Evasive 3
Prerequisite: Evasive or Mystic Armor.
Celerity now provides 4 armor points.

Last Stand 1
Once per event, you may call out “Resist by Will” to negate a melee attack.

A Little Something Extra 2
You may fight with a medium melee weapon in your off-hand while fighting with a 46” weapon in your
primary hand.

Mastering the Deadly Stroke 2
While wielding a sword, you may spend 1 point of Earth to make a melee attack for “5 Damage.”

A Steel Shell 3
Prerequisite: 2 purchases of Armored for War.
When you are wearing an armor prop worth 4 points, and you spend 1 minute repairing it, you gain a
“Guard” defense to negate the first melee attack with the Agony, called Damage, or Maim effect that
strikes you.

Strengthened Armor 5
Prerequisite: 2 purchases of Armored for War.
The number of Armor points you may gain from an armor prop is increased by 1. You must have a proper
armor prop to use this skill.




                                                                                                          78
A Sword's Shadow 2
Prerequisite: A Little Something Extra.
This skill allows you to use any one-handed blade in your off-hand.

Unanswered 1
One should not give insult to a duelist and back away when confronted with the prospect of a duel.
Although you might expect attitude from someone young and cocky, an insult from someone with
experience is a grave matter. If you are insulted and you challenge someone to a duel to clear your name
or your honor, you expect that they would step up to duel you or arrange for a second to step in for
them. If they refuse you and besmirch your honor, you may gather at least 2 other Duelists who also
have this skill and condemn such a person for their lack of honor and courage. You must have a good
reason to accuse another character in such a manner.
Once per event, you may accuse another character, declaring them dishonored. Choose one Duelist as
the accuser in this inquiry. Each additional Duelist who has heard the evidence and supports this act
touches the accuser and calls out "Imbue by Will" to show they have empowered the accuser. This
support does not exhaust this skill. If you are the accuser and two other Duelists empower you, you can
confront the errant cur and reveal their base acts.
You must confront them with a brief statement explaining why they are condemned. It's all about the
panache with which you accuse them. At the end of the accusation, point your blade at the cur and call
out "By Your Name [Name], Permanent Inflict Dishonored Trait" to show they are dishonored.
If someone has been unjustly persecuted, or a person declared dishonored has shown proper remorse,
you may also use this skill to exonerate them. You gather two other Duelists who must agree with you
and empower you in the manner described above. If you are so empowered by a council that has
discussed the situation and they decide the person should be forgiven, you may touch the person with
the blade of your sword, exhaust the use of this skill, and call out "Cure Dishonored Trait by Inspiration"
to remove the trait.
It is rumored that Duelist masters can cause those so condemned to break ranks, step aside from battle,
or fall prey to weakness. The abuse of this skill, both in its application and in the removal of another's
dishonor, has caused arguments between schools and dueling masters to turn violent.

With a Twist of the Wrist 3
While fighting with a sword, you may spend 2 points of Water to make a melee attack for "Disarm.” You
must strike the weapon instead of the opponent.

Witty Repartee 2
Prerequisite: Always Prepared to Fight
Once per duel where you have used Always Prepared to Fight, you may call out your Witty Repartee
incantation to refresh one point of Air, Earth, Fire, or Water if you have used that attribute in this duel.
The incantation must be submitted to and approved by the Staff, but you can have more than one
incantation so that you can pick an appropriate retort. The incantation must take at least 3 seconds to
deliver, and you must deliver it with a flourish.




                                                                                                               79
Chimera Skills 4
Prerequisite: You must be a member of The Veilward Enclave to purchase this header.
Characters with the Chimera header gain the Arcane trait. All spells purchased under this header are
arcane spells.

Combat Anticipation 3
You may spend 3 seconds and 1 point of Air to call out “Purge” and end one Agony or Maim effect.

The Dose Makes the Medicine 1
Spell-like Ability
Once per event, you may call out “Imbue by Poison” and gain five packet attacks for “Heal 2 by Poison.”
You are considered casting when using this skill or any packet attack gained from the imbue.

Envenomed Strike 2
You may spend 1 point of Earth to make a melee attack for "5 Damage by Poison."

Evasive 3
Prerequisite: Celerity
Celerity now provides 3 armor points.

Force Bolts 1
Spell-like Ability
You have a pool of 10 magical force bolts that you use for uncalled missile attacks. You refresh your pool
to 10 by spending one minute of Focus gathering magical energy.

Leveraged Block 1
While wielding a two-handed melee weapon and one of your arms is affected by a Maim effect, you may
call “Reduce.” You cannot attack, but you can block attacks as usual, and use game skills that allow you to
call out a Defense and require you to be using a melee weapon. You cannot use this skill again until the
Maim is cured. The ability to block ends if your other arm takes a Maim, or you take a second Maim to
the first arm.

Paralytic Venom 4
You may spend 2 points of Earth to make a melee attack for "Short Paralyze by Poison."

Scorpion Sting Venom 2
You may spend 1 point of Air to make a melee attack for "Agony by Poison."

Spinning Staff 2
While wielding a staff, you may spend 1 point of Water to gain 3 melee attacks for "2 Damage.” Any
remaining attacks are lost when the event ends or when you refresh attributes.




                                                                                                        80
Spellbound 1
Your offensive spells that fail to harm the target are not truly expended. When you throw a
packet-delivered spell, if it does not hit anyone, or the target calls No Effect, Spirit, or Avoid to negate it,
that spell is bound to you. If you spend one minute of Focus, regathering magical energies to you, then
you regain the attributes spent to cast these bound spells.
Spellbound may only be used for spells purchased under headers with this skill. These spells must be
non-beneficial and cost attributes; per-event spells may not be Spellbound. When you rest to refresh
Void, you lose any bound spells and can no longer regain those attributes.

The Sphere of Illusion 2
You may purchase spells from the Illusion sphere.

Staff of the Arcane 3
Prerequisite: Melee Weapon - Staff.
You may hold a staff while you are casting spells, overriding the restriction that casting requires both
hands to be empty.




                                                                                                              81
Cupbearer Skills 3
You derive magical power from your faith in that god, and you are rewarded with divine powers. You
have the Devout trait, and all spells purchased under this header are divine spells.

Agent of Fate 1
Prerequisite: Aura of Healing
Spell-like Ability
Once per event, you may call out “Imbue by Fate” to refresh all uses of your Aura of healing and Refresh
2 points to an attribute (not Void) of your choosing. Attributes refreshed in this way must be used on
spells or skills purchased under the Cupbearers header.

Aura of Healing 4
Spell-like Ability
You cannot purchase this skill if you have Aura of the Herald or Aura of Vengeance.
You gain 3 points of a pool of healing energy. You may spend a point from this pool to make a touch
attack for "Heal by Will." For each spell purchased under this header, the pool gains 1 point, up to a
maximum of 10.
The points from your pool may be refreshed by spending 1 minute of Rest in an area dedicated to
resting, such as the tavern or your cabin, or an area marked safe to refresh this skill. There is no limit to
the number of times you may refresh these points.

Battlefield Centering 1
Prerequisite: Aura of Healing.
To use this skill, you must carry a mat or rug that is at least four square feet in area, and it must be
decorated with religious iconography or runes.
You may spend a minute of Focus on or over this rug. At the end of this Focus, you refresh all of the
healing pool received from Aura of Healing. This focus is not limited to a designated area for rest.

Blessings of the Faithful 4
Information Skill.
You have developed trusted contacts and advisors who aid you in battles and challenges of faith and
religion. You choose where you seek aid when you purchase this skill. Some Cupbearers have developed
contacts in their High Church, and others have developed contacts among the wandering Mendicants
that watch over small villages and the merchant road. The difference between the two sources is only a
matter of role play; players can expect similar blessings from either source unless the blessing specifically
involves a matter of difference about some social aspect of either group. Between events you may
submit a request for aid in some upcoming battle or challenge that involves your faith. If the faithful can
help, you might receive boons and blessings related to the task that you submit. This skill does not
guarantee response. You do not specify the type of blessing; that is at the discretion of the faithful that
pray for inspiration to aid you. You cannot use this skill if you end an event with a condition that prevents
the use of game skills.




                                                                                                            82
Buckler 2
You can use a buckler to block melee and missile attacks. Your primary weapon cannot be longer than
46” while using a buckler, and you can only use one buckler or shield at any time.

The Divine Choir 5
Spell-like Ability
This skill enables you to revive individuals who have died but have not yet become spirits of the dead.
You must be supported by two assistants who also have this skill. You must say a short prayer over the
target of this ability. Once this prayer has finished, the assistants make a touch attack on you for “Imbue
by Divine Choir.” Once empowered by their assistants, you may expend 3 points of Fire to make a touch
attack for "Cure Death by Divine.”
The prayer and empowerment of the assistants must occur in the presence of the dead body to be
restored to life; thus, assistants cannot preemptively imbue the primary caster.

Divine Vestments 2
You may wear up to 3 points of physical armor. You must have a proper armor prop to use this skill.

Empowered by Faith 4
You may spend 2 points of Fire to call out “Purge,” reducing your current Stress by 1.

Evasive 3
Prerequisite: Celerity.
Celerity now provides 3 armor points.

Gift of Healing 3
Prerequisite: Blessing of Health
When you cast the Blessing of Health spell from this header, you may invoke three healing effects instead
of the two effects normally granted by the spell.

Preventive Medicine 1
Once per event, when you are struck by an attack with an effect or a trait that you could cure with a
divine spell, call out “Resist” to negate that effect. Alternatively, you may spend 2 Fire to call out “Resist”
to negate one attack that inflicts stress.

The Sphere of Restoration 2
This skill allows you to learn spells from the Restoration sphere. These spells are purchased and used like
skills.




                                                                                                            83
Temple Fortress 1
You may protect yourself within a temple consecrated to your patron. You may touch a symbol of your
patron displayed in the temple with both hands, spend 2 points of Water, and say "Imbue Spirit by
Divine" to activate this ability. The area must be marked with an Information tag stating it is consecrated
to your patron. So long as you do not move, you gain the Spirit defense and become immune to most
attacks. Any attack that is not beneficial, that is "by Darkness" or "to Spirit," affects you and knocks you
out of Spirit form. Otherwise, you stay in spirit form until you choose to move.

Wisdom of the Faithful 3
Information Skill
You have developed trusted contacts and advisors who offer guidance on matters of faith and religion.
You choose where you seek wisdom when you purchase this skill. Some Cupbearers have developed
contacts in their High Church, and others have developed contacts among the wandering Mendicants
that watch over small villages and the merchant road. The difference between the two sources is
primarily a matter of role play; players can expect similar information from either source, unless the
question is specifically about an opinion on a social aspect of either group. This is an information skill
that does not require any payment. You submit a question between events as described in the
Information Skills section above. If the question is appropriate for the devotees of your faith, you may
receive knowledge appropriate to your question.




                                                                                                             84
Gladiator Skills 5
Prerequisite: You must be a member of The Ashen Witness to purchase this header.

Back to Guard 2
While wielding a melee weapon, you may spend 1 point of Water to call out "Disengage."

Blood in the Pit 1
Once per event, when you are Unstable and you are about to die because your one-minute death count
is expiring, you may call “Stabilize and Refresh 2 Earth.”

Buckler 2
You can use a buckler to block melee and missile attacks. Your primary weapon cannot be longer than
46” while using a buckler, and you can only use one buckler or shield at any time.

Combat Anticipation 3
You may spend 3 seconds and 1 point of Air to call out “Purge” and end one Agony or Maim effect.

A Crippling Blow 1
You may spend 2 Earth to make a melee attack for "Maim" and strike a limb.

Critical Strike 2
You spend 1 point of Earth to make a melee attack for "5 Damage."

A Desperate Defense 2
While wielding a melee weapon you are skilled with, you may spend 2 points of Earth to call out “Parry”
to negate a melee attack that strikes you.

Double Glaive 2
You may use a double glaive to make melee attacks and block weapon and missile attacks.
You may wield the double glaive with one hand, although you can not attack with it while using the
weapon in this fashion. If you have a skill that allows you to use two weapons, you can use a weapon in
your other hand so long as it is medium length or less.
A double glaive is a shafted weapon with a blade on both ends. It has a minimum length of 48" and a
maximum length of 64". A double glaive is constructed like a staff, except it has a blade at both ends, and
each blade must be at least 1/3 of the entire length. The double glaive can be held in the middle, and
you can choke up and hold the bladed portion if you have gauntlets to protect your hands.

A Flurry of Strikes 2
While wielding a melee weapon, you may spend 1 point of Water to gain 2 melee attacks for “2
Damage.” Any remaining attacks are lost when the event ends or when you refresh attributes.




                                                                                                        85
Great Glaive 2
Prerequisite: Double Glaive.
You can use a great glaive to make melee attacks and block weapon and missile attacks.
The great glaive cannot be used in one hand.
This two-handed weapon is a double-bladed polearm. The weapon must be at least 60" and no more
than 72". Each end has a polearm blade and full 5/8" padding that covers at least 1/3 of the total length
of the blade. The middle section of the great glaive must also be padded, although you can use 3/8”
padding for the grip of the staff so long as the full 5/8” is used for the striking surfaces. The great glaive
can be held in the middle, and you can choke up and hold the bladed portion if you have gauntlets to
protect your hands.

Heart of the Lion 1
You may spend 1 point of Fire to call out “Resist” to negate one attack with the Fear trait. Alternatively,
you may spend 2 Fire to call out “Resist” to negate one attack that inflicts stress.

I Know That Tactic 5
You spend 3 points of Fire to call out “Avoid by Cunning” to negate any one melee attack. Afterwards,
you may avoid any melee attack with that same effect, regardless of the attack trait, by spending 1 point
of Fire to call out “Avoid by Cunning.”
Once this ability is activated, you cannot use it on a different effect; it is locked onto that effect until the
event ends or you refresh attributes with Void. You can use this skill to avoid a Damage effect, but it locks
onto the exact amount of Damage you avoided, and it cannot be used on melee attacks that do a
different amount of damage.

Last Stand 1
Once per event, you may call out “Resist by Will” to negate a melee attack.

Leveraged Block 1
While wielding a two-handed melee weapon and one of your arms is affected by a Maim effect, you may
call “Reduce.” You cannot attack, but you can block attacks as usual, and use game skills that allow you to
call out a Defense and require you to be using a melee weapon. You cannot use this skill again until the
Maim is cured. The ability to block ends if your other arm takes a Maim, or you take a second Maim to
the first arm.

A Little Something Extra 2
You may fight with a medium melee weapon in your off-hand while fighting with a 46” weapon in your
primary hand.

Resilience 2
You may spend 3 seconds of Focus and 1 point of Water to call out "Heal 3 to Self."




                                                                                                             86
Rile Up the Crowd 3
Choose a unique pose and slogan that takes at least 3 seconds to perform. When you do so, you Refresh
1 point of your Air, Earth, Fire, or Water. You cannot use this skill again until you use Void to refresh your
attributes.
If you have the Resilience skill, you may pay its cost and use that skill in the same 3-second time as part
of your role play.

The Twin Threat 2
Prerequisite: A Little Something Extra
This skill allows you to use any one-handed melee weapon in your off-hand.

The Will To Live 1
Once per event, you may call out “Reduce” to a Death effect and instead become Unstable with no
Vitality or Armor.
This skill does not work against a Death Strike, nor does it protect you if you die from bleeding out. You
may use this skill even if you are unconscious.




                                                                                                            87
Herald Skills 3
You are the voice and heart for a group of individuals called a Company. A Company is a group of people
that forms for some common purpose. Many companies are military, and some form to support a
personage of noble bearing. It is generally considered poor form for someone to be in more than one
active company at the same time.
Through years of excellence and faithful service, the Heralds of the land have developed their own
magic, which enables them to inspire others and lend strength to members of their Company. Heralds
also pick up skills that help groups function. You act as organizer and standard bearer for the Company.
You have contacts in the Argent Accord who help you with your duties. By registering your Company
name, its goals, and its colors with the Argent Accord , you help to build the legend and the reputation
necessary to power your magic. The Argent Accord maintains a strict neutrality in its dealings.
Many of the Herald skills enable you to support a group of individuals known as a Company. In order to
do this, you must spread tales of their deeds and their goals to empower the magic in their name. You
may become an official Herald for only one Company at a time, and each Company may only have one
Herald at a time.. It is for this group that you work your magic. When you help to form a new Company,
you must approve the Company name with the plot staff, as no two Heralds may use the same Company
name. The Company name becomes a trait for members of your group.
To avoid confusion, the name cannot have one of the standard traits in its title. Plot may decide that a
proposed name is too close to an existing Company or group, that the name is too close to a common
trait, or that the name does not fit with the flavor of the game. If a name is rejected, the Argent Accord
rejects it. The Accord often rejects company names for various reasons.
Although the official title for a Company is often preceded by "The Company of..." when formally
introducing the group, the trait in verbals need not be lengthened to include this formality to keep
verbals brief. You must create and maintain a standard that displays the colors of the Company in order
to use standard magic. This standard must be large enough to be visible on the battlefield among the
waves of violent chaos. If another Herald feels your standard is inadequate, they may file a grievance
with the Argent Accord.
Heralds wear the colors of their company and carry banners that are decorated with the coat of arms or
symbol of their company. When using skills that affect their company, the Herald must be wearing
company heraldry, and the herald's banner must be within line of sight. Heraldry must be worn in a
prominent place, usually on a surcoat or tabard. The banner is presented on a pole that must be at least
as tall as the Herald or attached to a combat safe staff, if the Banner is attached to a staff the weapon
may only be used to block. The banner must run at least half the length of the pole and be wide enough
to clearly display the heraldry. When a herald is drawn into some dangerous place that is indoors, they
may instead use a full-length tabard or surcoat displaying the colors and heraldry of the company to use
skills requiring a banner.
A Herald is mystically linked to their company banner. If the banner poles are padded, then the Herald
gains the ability to touch-cast beneficial spells while holding the company banner. Once you stop moving
and plant the banner, it cannot be the target of spells and arrows unless the banner is blocking another
target. You may call “Resist by Banner” to missile and packet attacks that strike it. If someone has cover
behind the banner or it is blocking some other target, attacks on the banner affect you.




                                                                                                         88
Aid Station 3
Spell-like Ability
You may refresh the health of allies in battle. You may spend 1 point of Water and call out “Imbue by
Inspiration” to gain 2 packet attacks for “Heal 2 by Inspiration.” If you are carrying your battle standard
with the colors of your company prominently displayed when you activate this ability, you gain 3 attacks
instead of 2.
You may use these castings while you are carrying a banner in your off hand. These castings expire when
they are used, when you use Void to refresh attributes, and at the end of the event. You may only have
one of these abilities active at any time.

At the Fore 1
Spell-like Ability
When you are going forward to negotiate or to view enemy forces, you may place your banner so that it
is upright, or leave it in the hands of someone you trust, so you have a safe retreat.
You may spend 1 point of Fire and call out “Protection of the Banner” to turn to a Spirit, cross your arms
in front of you, and walk towards your banner. Call “Spirit” to negate melee, missile, packet, and voice
attacks against you. Detrimental attacks that affect you (such as traps or other plot deliveries) or
detrimental effects with “to Spirit” or “to Herald” traits take full effect and end the use of this skill.
You may not use this skill if your banner is away from you on the other side of a gate. If at any time after
you activate this skill your banner is moved, falls over, or somehow leaves your line of sight, you
immediately come out of spirit form, lose all of your Vitality, and fall over Unstable.

Aura of the Herald 4
Spell-like Ability
You cannot purchase this skill if you have Aura of Healing or Aura of Vengeance.
You gain 3 points of a pool of healing energy. You may spend a point from this pool to make a touch
attack for "Heal by Will." For each skill purchased under this header, the pool gains 1 point, up to a
maximum of 10.
The points from your pool may be refreshed by spending 1 minute of Rest in an area dedicated to
resting, such as the tavern or your cabin, or an area marked safe to refresh this skill. There is no limit to
the number of times you may refresh these points.

Battlefield First Aid 1
Prerequisite: First Aid.
The time required for you to use First Aid to stabilize or cure a Maim effect is reduced to 30 seconds.

Call of Courage 2
Spell-like Ability
If you are carrying your banner, you may spend 2 points of Fire to cry out, “By My Voice, Cure Stress to
[Company Name].”




                                                                                                            89
Call of Freedom 1
Spell-like Ability
Once per event, you may call out “By My Voice, Cure Physical and Heal 2 to [Company Name].”

Call of Healing 4
Spell-like Ability
If you are carrying your banner, you may spend 2 points of Earth to cry out “By My Voice, Heal 2 to
[Company Name]” to their wounds.

Call of Respite 2
Spell-like Ability
If you are carrying your banner, you may spend 1 point of Air to cry out, “By My Voice, Stabilize to
[Company Name]” to prevent them from bleeding out.

Courier 3
Information Skill.
Between events, you may pay 1 silver to attempt to send letters to other characters in the world. You
may pay the cost, and you may send an electronic copy of the physical letter to plot between events. You
may also submit a physical prop to plot if its presentation has some significance. You must know where
the letter must be sent. You need not attempt to deliver the letter yourself; the Argent Accord sends it
along to its proper place. There is always a chance that a letter could be intercepted if you send it to a
dangerous location or if someone is attempting to foil your attempts. If you believe this is the case, you
may increase the amount you pay for delivery to help ensure its safety, although someone attempting to
foil your attempts might also be able to pay more to intercept the letter.

Ears of the Company 3
Information Skill.
You are the eyes and ears of your Company, and you are constantly gathering information with other
Companies. If you spread some money around, you often hear rumors or tales about the things other
groups have seen and jobs they might have been hired for. This is an information skill that requires you
to spread some money around to loosen lips. You submit a question between events as described in the
Information Skills section above. If the question is appropriate for the Companies, you may receive
knowledge appropriate to your question.

The Herald's Nod 1
You may spend 1 point of Air, gesture at a target, and call out, "By My Gesture, Expose Herald by Magic."
This is typically done only if there is some doubt about the validity of the individual in question. If you do
this in court to a prominent Herald, you might be considered a buffoon or fool, but using the skill on the
road or in times of danger is certainly warranted.




                                                                                                           90
Initiation 1
You are the keeper of your Company. 10 times per event, you may give out your Company trait to
individuals who belong to your company or are allied to your Company. Touch a packet to a willing target
and call out “Imbue [Company Name] by Inspiration” to add your Company Name as a trait to the target
until the end of the event.

Now You See It, Now You Don't 2
This skill allows you to spend 1 point of Air to hide one item for five minutes on your person. The item
cannot be in plain sight. If you are searched, you do not have to reveal the presence of the item. If the
item is actually spotted by someone, however, this skill fails. The skill works for five minutes, even if you
are killed during that time.

Refreshing Banner 1
Prerequisite: Aura of the Herald.
To use this skill, you must carry a heraldic banner.
You may spend a minute of Focus cleaning and repairing your banner. At the end of this focus, you
refresh all of the healing pool received from Aura of the Herald. This focus is not limited to a designated
area for rest.

Strength of the Company 3
Spell-like Ability
You may make a touch attack for “Diagnose [Initiate, Experienced, or Accomplished] trait.”
You may spend 1 point of Air, Earth, Fire, or Water to make a touch attack for "Refresh [Attribute] to
[Company]." If you’ve Diagnosed the target as an Initiate, "Refresh 2 [Attribute] to [Company]."
If you purchase this skill, you can not be affected by it. If another Herald tries to refresh you, politely tell
them that you are unaffected.

Tale of Encouragement 4
Your tales inspire those who listen to them, and the entertainment can give them hope, strength, and
ease their fatigue. Once per event, you may spend at least one minute telling an entertaining story about
your Company to any in the room who would listen. When you are finished, bow or indicate in some way
that the story is complete. If the crowd reacts with laughter or applause, you may choose Air, Earth, Fire,
or Water and call out, "In This Room, Refresh [Attribute] By Inspiration."

Tale of Restoration 1
Your tales inspire those who listen to them, and the entertainment can soothe their wounds. Once per
event, you may spend at least one minute telling an entertaining story about your Company to any in the
room who would listen. When you are finished, you bow or indicate in some way that the story is
complete. If the crowd reacts with laughter or applause, you may call out "In This Room, Heal 2 By
Inspiration" to offer your audience respite from their wounds.




                                                                                                              91
Highborn Skills 3
Characters with the Highborn header gain the Arcane trait. All spells purchased under this header are
arcane spells.
Prerequisite: You must be a member of The Gilded Hart to purchase this header.
The flow of social activities in the High Courts of the kingdoms has a magic of its own. You cannot use
any Highborn skill if you have been inflicted with the Uncivilized trait. Once you take this header, you find
yourself utterly incapable of fighting with claws of any kind. You cannot use Highborn skills unless you act
and dress in a civilized and dignified manner.

Courier 3
Information Skill.
Between events, you may pay 1 silver to attempt to send letters to other characters in the world. You
may pay the cost, and you may send an electronic copy of the physical letter to the Staff between events.
You may also submit a physical prop to plot if its presentation has some significance. You must know
where the letter must be sent. You need not attempt to deliver the letter yourself; the Argent Accord
sends it along to its proper place. There is always a chance that a letter is intercepted if you send it to a
dangerous location or if someone is attempting to foil your attempts. If you believe this is the case, you
may increase the amount you pay for delivery to help ensure its safety, although someone attempting to
foil your attempts might also be able to pay more to intercept the letter.

Decorum 2
Spell-like Ability
Sometimes, a Highborn is all there is between decorum and anarchy. You may spend 1 point of Earth to
make a packet or touch attack for “Cure Frenzy by Inspiration,” or “Cure Madness by Inspiration.”
If you are in a room, you may spend 1 point of Earth to call out “In This Room, Cure Frenzy by
Inspiration” or “In This Room, Cure Madness by Inspiration.”

Evasive 3
Prerequisite: Celerity.
Celerity now provides 3 armor points.

A Gilded Carriage 1
Once per event, if you have received a formal invitation to a function and you have dressed specifically
for that function, you may travel to that function as a spirit after you have spent at least one minute
dressing and grooming for that purpose. Once you are dressed and prepared with the invitation in hand,
you activate this skill at your dwelling to become a spirit and gain the Spirit defense.
You gain the Spirit trait and the Illusion trait and become immune to most attacks. Attacks with the "to
Spirit" or the "to Illusion" traits affect you, and effects that are not beneficial knock you out of spirit form
and end this effect. You must travel directly to the function. You cannot tarry once you use this skill on
other concerns. The protection ends when you reach your destination and enter the function.
If you haven’t used a non-beneficial attack during the function, when the function is finished, you may
use this skill to return to your dwelling where you first used the skill.
You may use this skill a second time during the event, but only if your outfit is completely different.

                                                                                                             92
Presence 1
Spell-like Ability
Once per event, you may call out “By My Voice, Cure Mental by Inspiration.”

A Sharp Tongue 3
If you are affected by an attack with a Mental trait, you can shake it off if you are given the chance to
interact with the attacker, either by engaging in some kind of conversation to focus or by haranguing
them. You must spend at least 10 seconds saying something appropriately witty to activate this skill. If
you are unsure or unsatisfied with your retort, you lack the confidence to use this skill.
If your verbal banter is pleasing, and let's face it, you know if it isn't, then you may spend 1 point of
Water to call out "Purge [Mental Trait]" and end that effect.

Showing Proper Appreciation 1
Twice per event, you may show your appreciation for an exceptional performance and the performance
evokes a beneficial or magical effect. You must thank the performer while complimenting their
performance. If they are willing to receive your praise, you may touch them and choose Air, Earth, Fire,
or Water. Call out "Refresh [Attribute] by Inspiration" to reward their art.

The Sphere of Manipulation 2
You may purchase spells from the Manipulation sphere.

With Noble Bearing 2
You may spend 1 point of Fire to call “Resist” to negate one attack for Frenzy.
You may spend 1 point of Fire to call “Resist” to negate one attack with the Fear or Madness traits.




                                                                                                            93
Investigator Skills 3
Prerequisite: You must be a member of The Veilward Enclave to purchase this header.
Characters with the Investigator header gain the Arcane trait. All spells purchased under this header are
arcane spells.

Back to Guard 2
While wielding a melee weapon, you may spend 1 point of Water to call out "Disengage."

Blade of the Arcane 3
This skill allows you to hold and use a one-handed sword while you are casting spells, overriding the
restriction that casting requires both hands to be empty. You must have the skill with the weapon in
question to use this ability.

Buckler 2
You can use a buckler to block melee and missile attacks. Your primary weapon cannot be longer than
46” while using a buckler, and you can only use one buckler or shield at any time.

Evasive 3
Prerequisite: Celerity.
Celerity now provides 3 armor points.

Daring 2
You may spend 1 point of Fire to call “Resist” to negate one attack with the Fear or Madness traits.
Alternatively, you may spend 2 Fire to call out “Resist” to negate one attack that inflicts Stress.

Escape Artist 2
You may spend 1 point of Water to call “Purge” to remove one Paralyze, Root, or Slow effect with a
Physical trait.
You may spend 2 points of Water and spend three seconds of Focus to slip shackle props off your body
and end that effect.

A Flurry of Strikes 2
When fighting with a melee weapon, you may spend 1 point of Water to gain 2 melee attacks for “2
Damage.” Any remaining attacks are lost when the event ends or when you refresh attributes. One use is
consumed if the strike lands and the opponent acknowledges it with role play or negates it with a
defense. You need not use the strikes consecutively. Uncalled strikes and other skills may be used
between uses of this skill. Any remaining strikes are lost when the event ends or when you refresh
attributes.

Force Bolts 1
Spell-like Ability
You have a pool of 10 magical force bolts that you use for uncalled missile attacks. You refresh your pool
to 10 by spending one minute of Focus gathering magical energy.


                                                                                                        94
Hardened Psyche 1
Once per event, you may spend 3 seconds to call out “Purge Mental and Refresh 2 Fire” to remove all
non-Inflict effects with a Mental trait.

A Little Something Extra 2
You may fight with a medium melee weapon in your off-hand while fighting with a 46” weapon in your
primary hand.

Perfect Recall 3
Information Skill.
If you hear or see some important information in-game, you can spend time between events to try to
recall bits and pieces of that information. You submit a request to plot for clarification on something you
witnessed in-game. Although you can ask for clarification about something you witnessed, you can only
ask about and get information about what you actually experienced. Plot may decide to give you
additional details or understanding of the event to reflect your exceptional memory. This type of
information skill has a limited scope. It is not powerful enough to replace good note-taking, nor would it
ever provide a transcript or long description of information after the fact, but it can provide a sentence
or two of clarification, and perhaps a name and its spelling if that is part of your inquiry. Asking about
information that was not freely presented in the scene always fails.

A Second Weapon 2
Prerequisite: A Little Something Extra.
This skill allows you to use a long melee weapon in your off-hand.

The Sphere of Conjuration 2
This skill allows you to learn spells from the Conjuration sphere.

Too Long Studying 1
Your hours of long study of occult tomes in a dimly lit room were not for nothing. You may spend 2
points of Fire to call out “Resist” to negate one Inflict card attached to or hidden within a book, scroll, or
other text prop.




                                                                                                            95
Penitent Skills 3
You gain the “Devout” trait when you purchase this header.
Prerequisite: You can not have the Cupbearers Header.

Calming the Inner Self 2
You may spend 1 point of Air to call “Resist” to negate one attack with the Frenzy or Weakness effect.

Evasive 3
Prerequisite: Celerity.
Celerity now provides 3 armor points.

Combat Anticipation 3
You may spend 3 seconds and 1 point of Air to call out “Purge” and end one Agony or Maim effect.

Desperate Strike 1
Once per event, you may call out “10 Damage” and make a melee attack with a staff. If the attack hits
but is negated by a defense, you gain 5 packet attacks for “Heal 2 By Will.”

Empathic Healing 3
Spell-like Ability
You may spend 1 point of Vitality to make a touch attack on another person for “Heal by Sacrifice.” If this
removes your last point of Vitality, you fall Unstable.

Fortress of Iron Will 5
Spell-like Ability
You may press your palms together, become motionless, and spend 3 points of Air to call “Imbue to Self”
and gain the Spirit defense. So long as you do not move, respond “Spirit” to any game effect. Only game
effects that specifically include "to Spirit" in the verbal work on you. Any attack that is not beneficial with
"to Spirit" in the verbal that strikes you immediately ends this ability.

Leveraged Block 1
While wielding a two-handed melee weapon and one of your arms is affected by a Maim effect, you may
call “Reduce.” You cannot attack, but you can block attacks as usual, and use game skills that allow you to
call out a Defense and require you to be using a melee weapon. You cannot use this skill again until the
Maim is cured. The ability to block ends if your other arm takes a Maim, or you take a second Maim to
the first arm.

Mental Fortitude 3
You may spend 2 points of Air to call “Resist” to negate one attack based on a Mental trait.

Penitent Strike 2
When fighting with a staff, you may spend 1 point of Earth to make a melee attack for "5 Damage."



                                                                                                            96
Setting the Blade Aside 5
When fighting with a staff, you may spend 2 points of Fire to make a melee attack for “Disarm” and strike
an opponent's weapon.

Snap out of it! 2
You may spend 3 seconds of Focus to make a touch attack for "Cure Will by Inspiration."

Spinning Staff 2
When fighting with a staff, you may spend 1 point of Water to gain 3 melee attacks for "2 Damage.” Any
remaining strikes are lost when the event ends or when you refresh attributes.

A Spirit's Harmony 3
When you are Dead, and your 5 minutes have passed, you may wait up to an additional 5 minutes before
becoming a Spirit of the Dead.

The Will to Live 1
Once per event, you may call out “Reduce” to a Death effect and instead become Unstable with no
Vitality or Armor.
This skill does not work against a Death Strike, nor does it protect you if you die from bleeding out. You
may use this skill even if you are unconscious.




                                                                                                         97
Ranger Skills 4
You are a warrior and a woodsman, adept at combat and survival. Rangers are particularly adept at using
spears. You are self-sufficient and skilled in wilderness survival.

Back to Guard 2
While wielding a melee weapon, you may spend 1 point of Water to call out "Disengage."

Battlefield Triage 1
Prerequisite: First Aid
The time required for you to use First Aid to stabilize or cure a Maim effect is reduced to 30 seconds.

Buckler 2
You can use a buckler to block melee and missile attacks. Your primary weapon cannot be longer than
46” while using a buckler, and you can only use one buckler or shield at any time.

A Crippling Blow 1
You may spend 2 Earth to make a melee attack for "Maim" and strike a limb.

A Desperate Defense 2
While wielding a melee weapon you are skilled with, you may spend 2 points of Earth to call out “Parry”
to negate a melee attack that strikes you.

Enmity 4
You may spend 1 point of Earth to make a melee or missile attack for “5 Damage.”
When you purchase this skill, choose one of the following as your Foe: Beast, Demon, Elemental, Fae,
Solari, Infernal, or Undead. You may spend 1 point of Earth to make a melee attack for "7 Damage to
[Chosen Foe]."

A Flurry of Strikes 2
You may spend 1 point of Water to gain 2 melee attacks for "2 Damage.” Any remaining strikes are lost
when the event ends or when you refresh attributes.

Fortitude of the Wild 3
You may spend 1 point of Water to call “Resist” to negate one attack with the Poison trait.
If you have the Enmity skill, your Flurry of Strikes under Ranger is increased to 3 Damage.




                                                                                                          98
Healing Herbs 2
Spell-like Ability
The use of this skill requires a medicine pouch prop. This pouch must be large enough to hold a packet.
You spend a minute gathering plants and herbs into your pouch in a wild place where there are no
buildings in sight. Once activated, you may touch a packet to your medicine pouch, then make a touch
attack for "Heal 2 by Nature" on that person.
You may only have one use of this skill active at any one time, and each use requires one minute of role
play as you gather what you need from the woods.

Herbal Remedy 1
Spell-like Ability
The use of this skill requires a medicine pouch prop. This pouch must be large enough to hold a packet.
You spend a minute gathering plants and herbs into your pouch in a wild place where there are no
buildings in sight. Once activated, you may touch a packet to your medicine pouch, then make a touch
attack for "Cure Metabolic by Nature.”
You may only have one use of this skill active at any one time, and each use requires one minute of role
play as you gather what you need from the woods.

Last Stand 1
Once per event, you may call out “Resist by Will” to negate a melee attack.

A Little Something Extra 2
You may fight with a medium melee weapon in your off-hand while fighting with a 46” weapon in your
primary hand.

Nature's Embrace 2
This skill may only be used while cloaked by nature (you are touching a tree, or there are multiple trees
between you and any visible buildings). When you fall Unstable, you may spend 1 point of Fire to
become stable immediately.
You may use this skill to take an extra step while falling down, so you lie down touching the roots or
trunk of a tree.

Press the Hunt 1
Prerequisite: Enmity
Once per event, you may call out “Imbue by the Hunt” to gain 3 free uses of Enmity. Any remaining
strikes are lost when the event ends or when you refresh attributes.

Restored Will 2
You may spend 3 seconds of Focus to make a touch attack for "Cure Will by Inspiration."




                                                                                                         99
Reveal the Prey 1
Prerequisite: Enmity.
You may spend 1 point of Air to call out "By My Voice, Expose [Chosen Foe] by Nature.”

The Ranger’s Second Weapon 2
Prerequisite: A Little Something Extra.
This skill allows you to use a Spear to make attacks and to block melee and missile attacks in combat
without the need to purchase Melee Weapon Spear. Additionally you may use a long melee weapon in
your off-hand.
While wielding a Spear, the the damage you deal with Enmity is changed from “5 Damage” to “Double 3
Damage.” If you are using Enmity against your chosen enemy then the damage is changed from “7
Damage to [Chosen Foe]” to “Double 4 Damage to [Chosen Foe].”

Setting the Limb 4
You may spend 1 point of Fire to make a touch attack for "Cure Maim [Limb]" to fix the limb. You must
have one free, functioning hand to perform this skill.




                                                                                                    100
Rogue Skills 4
Better Lucky Than Good 1
Once per event, if you are unstable and you are about to die because your one-minute death count is
expiring, you may choose to “Heal 1 to Self” instead. When you use this skill, you also silently refresh 2
of your Water.

Buckler 2
You can use a buckler to block melee and missile attacks. Your primary weapon cannot be longer than
46” while using a buckler, and you can only use one buckler or shield at any time.

Calculated Blows 2
You may spend a point of Water to call "2 Damage" with a melee attack up to two times. You exhaust the
attribute the first time you swing using this effect. Any remaining strikes are lost when the event ends or
when you refresh attributes. If you are behind an opponent and able to see both shoulder blades when
you make this attack, you call out “3 Damage” instead of “2 damage.”

A Cloak of Shadow 4
You may protect yourself from harm by drawing a dark, hooded cloak about you and melding with the
shadows. You are empowered to seek shelter somewhere between the shadows, becoming insubstantial
to the real world so long as you do not move. The skill cannot be used during the day or at any time that
you can see daylight or something illuminated directly or indirectly by daylight, or if you are actively
being hit with Melee attacks. Exhaust 2 points of Air, gather your cloak around you, and call out "Imbue
by Shadow" to become a Spirit. So long as you do not move, you gain the Spirit defense. You gain the
Shadow trait and the Spirit trait. Any attack that is "to Shadow" or "to Spirit" affects you and, if they are
not beneficial, knocks you out of Spirit form. Otherwise, you stay in spirit form until you choose to move
or dawn comes.

Elusive 3
You may enter a defensive state where you dodge and weave around attacks through sheer
determination and focus. Spend a minute of concentration to activate this skill and empower your
elusive state. While you remain in this defensive state, you may spend 2 points of Water and call "Avoid"
to negate any melee, missile, or packet attack that strikes you. This defensive state ends if you become
unconscious, make a melee, missile, or packet attack, or use any effect that is not beneficial.

Escape Artist 2
You may spend 1 point of Water to call out Purge to remove one Paralyze, Root, or Slow effect with a
Physical trait.
You may spend 2 points of Water and spend three seconds of Focus to slip shackle props off your body
and end that effect.

A Little Something Extra 2
You may fight with a medium melee weapon in your off-hand while fighting with a 46” weapon in your
primary hand.



                                                                                                         101
Lockpicking 0
This skill allows you to attempt to pick game locks. For locks with keys, you must use tools and actually
open the lock. Only locks approved by the staff are allowed in the game. Combination locks are marked
on the back with a code. Characters with the Lockpicking skill are given the code translation, which
provides the first two digits of the three-digit code. You need to determine the third number required to
open it.

Manipulate Traps 1
This skill allows you to attempt to arm or disarm traps with the proper tools. Without this skill, you can
avoid traps, but you cannot attempt to manipulate them without setting them off. To disarm a trap, you
must actually use tools to prevent the mechanical trigger from setting off the part that makes noise and
causes damage to you.
When you trigger a trap, you may spend 1 Water to call out "Avoid" and negate the damage. The trap
may still have secondary effects such as destroying containers and possibly affecting your companions.

Now You See It, Now You Don't 2
This skill allows you to spend 1 point of Air to conceal one item on your person for five minutes. If you
are searched, you do not have to reveal the presence of the item. If the item is actually spotted by
someone, however, this skill fails. The skill continues to work even if you are killed during that time.
Additionally, while you have an item attuned to you that grants you a Trait, you may spend 1 Fire to resist
an Expose that targets that trait.

The Skeleton Key 2
If, after at least a minute of trying to pick a lock, you may spend 2 points of Earth and call out, "Inflict by
Inspiration," to force one lock to open. You may open the box, door, or latch the lock is attached to as if
the lock were open. This opens only one lock and does not disarm any traps.

The Twin Threat 2
Prerequisite: A Little Something Extra.
This skill allows you to use any one-handed melee weapon in your off-hand.

Waylay 3
When you are behind a target, you may spend 2 points of Air to make a melee attack for “Stun.” This skill
cannot be used while running; both your feet must be still. You may only use this skill once during a
single Flurry.

The Walls Have Ears 3
Information Skill.
You have learned how to utilize the darker side of society to uncover rumors and information that people
may have acquired in the course of their "normal" business. If you spread some money around, you may
hear rumors or tales about the things other groups have seen and jobs they might have been hired for.
This is an information skill that requires you to spread money around to loosen lips. You submit a
question between events as described in the Information Skills section above. If the question is
appropriate for this dangerous element, you may receive knowledge appropriate to your question.



                                                                                                            102
Sorcerer Skills 3
Characters with the sorcerer header gain the Arcane trait. All spells purchased under this header are
arcane spells.
Some skills require you to construct and use an Arcane Sanctum. This is a mystical circle you construct
where you can focus your energies. The sanctum must have a circle of at least 3 feet in diameter on the
floor or wall, decorated with runes and arcane symbols. To focus your energies, you sit in or touch the
circle. When resting in your Arcane Sanctum, you may refresh all skills associated with it with the same
rest, provided it is long enough for each of them. You may role-play with others while resting within your
sanctum. Skills that require an Arcane Sanctum may only be applied to Arcane spells. If you have more
than one skill requiring an ornate container with arcane stones, you may use, if you choose, one
container holding stones with different colors for each skill.

Arcane Flux 1
At the beginning of the event, place an ornate goblet, bowl, bag, or other container in your Cabin. Place
two counters (i.e., stones, gems, or crystals) into the container for each spell you have purchased from
this header.
When you spend a minute resting in your Arcane Sanctum, you may take out and exhaust one counter to
choose two offensive Arcane spells that cost 1 attribute point to cast. These cannot have a beneficial
effect. You are empowered with the energy to cast each of these Arcane spells once without attribute
cost. You can choose the same spell twice if you wish. Using this skill removes any previously empowered
spells if those also came from this skill.

Fire Shield 1
Spell-like Ability
Once per event, you may call out “Resist By Fire” to negate a Melee attack that hits you. After resisting
the attack, gesture at the person who attacked you and call out, “By my Gesture Agony by Fire.”
You may not use other skills while you maintain this gesture, and you must end the gesture after 5
seconds.

Force Bolts 1
Spell-like Ability
You have a pool of 10 magical force bolts that you use for uncalled missile attacks. You refresh your pool
to 10 by spending one minute of Focus gathering magical energy.

Infusion 3
Once per event, you may call out “Imbue by Infusion” to gain 2 Infusion points for your Air, Earth, Fire,
and Water attributes. These temporary attribute points are used to cast packet-delivered Arcane spells
that require the appropriate attribute. You must use up these points when casting packet-delivered
Arcane spells before exhausting the underlying attributes. These points cannot be refreshed with Void,
though they can be refreshed with the Spellbound skill.
You lose any unused Infusion points when you become Dead or use Void to refresh your attributes.




                                                                                                        103
Sorcerer’s Focus 2
You may spend 1 point of Fire to call “Resist” to negate one attack based on Will or Fear.
You may spend 2 Fire to call out “Resist” to negate one attack that inflicts Stress.

Spellbound 1
Your offensive spells that fail to harm the target are not truly expended. When you throw a
packet-delivered spell, if it does not hit anyone, or the target calls No Effect, Spirit, or Avoid to negate it,
that spell is bound to you. If you spend one minute of Focus, gathering magical energies to you, then you
regain the attributes spent to cast these bound spells.
Spellbound may only be used for spells purchased under headers with this skill. These spells must be
non-beneficial and cost attributes; per-event spells may not be Spellbound. When you rest to refresh
Void, you lose any bound spells and can no longer regain those attributes.

The Sphere of Evocation 2
This skill allows you to learn spells from the Evocation sphere. These spells are purchased and used like
skills.

The Sphere of Illusion 2
This skill allows you to learn spells from the Illusion sphere. These spells are purchased and used like
skills.

Staff of the Arcane 3
Prerequisite: Melee Weapon - Staff.
This skill allows you to hold and use any staff while you are casting spells, overriding the restriction that
casting requires both hands to be empty.




                                                                                                            104
Storm Caller Skills 4
Prerequisite: You must be a member of The Grey Cloaks to purchase this header.
Characters with the Storm Caller header gain the Arcane trait. All spells purchased under this header are
arcane spells.
When casting an Evocation spell, you may change the trait to Lightning.

Evasive 3
Prerequisite: Celerity.
Celerity now provides 3 armor points.

Duck For Cover 4
You may spend 3 points of Water to call out “Avoid” to negate any one missile or packet attack.

Force Bolts 1
Spell-like Ability
You have a pool of 10 magical force bolts that you use for uncalled missile attacks. You refresh your pool
to 10 by spending one minute of Focus gathering magical energy.

Lightning Struck Oak 3
You may hold a staff or a club weapon while you are casting spells, overriding the restriction that casting
requires both hands to be empty.

The Sphere of Evocation 2
This skill allows you to learn spells from the Evocation sphere. These spells are purchased and used like
skills.

Thunderclap 1
You may spend 1 point of Earth to make a melee attack for "Agony by Thunder."

Unleash the Storm's Fury 1
Spell-like Ability
Once per event, you may call out “By My Voice, Agony by Thunder.”
Unless you have a way to negate this attack, you are also under the effect of this Agony.

Whirlwind Step 2
While wielding a melee weapon, you may spend 1 point of Water to call out "Disengage by Wind."

Wind and Steel 2
While wielding a melee weapon you are skilled with, you may spend 2 points of Earth to call out “Parry
by Air” to negate a melee attack that strikes you.




                                                                                                        105
Sunseer Skills 3
You gain the Devout trait when you purchase this header.

Armored in Faith 1
Once per event, you may call out “Resist by Will and Grant 4 Protection to Self” to negate a melee attack.

Aura of Vengeance 4
You cannot purchase this skill if you have Aura of the Herald or Aura of Healing.
You may use this skill if all spells cast from a specific attribute since your last Void refresh were offensive
spells purchased under this header.
You may rest for one minute in an area dedicated to resting, such as the tavern or your cabin, then call
out “Refresh 4 [Attribute] to Self.” You may use this skill a number of times per event equal to the
number of spells you have purchased under this header.

Compartmentalize 1
You may spend 1 point of Fire to call “Resist” and temporarily negate one point of stress. The next time
you use Void to rest your attribute, all Inflict Stress effects negated by this skill take effect.

Consult the Tomes 3
Information Skill
You may call upon your fellow Sunseers to ask for guidance on matters of divine knowledge. You may
pursue answers to a question about religious matters.
This information skill does not require you to spend money. Submit a question between events as
described in the Information Skills section above. If the question is appropriate for the ancestors, you
may receive knowledge relevant to your question.

Force Bolts 1
Spell-like Ability
You have a pool of 10 magical force bolts that you use for uncalled missile attacks. You refresh your pool
to 10 by spending one minute of Focus gathering magical energy.

Scepter of the Divine 2
Prerequisite: Melee Weapon - Club.
You may hold a one-handed club weapon while you are casting spells, overriding the restriction that
casting requires both hands to be empty.




                                                                                                            106
Spellbound 1
Your offensive spells that fail to harm the target are not truly expended. When you throw a
packet-delivered spell, if it does not hit anyone, or the target calls No Effect, Spirit, or Avoid to negate it,
that spell is bound to you. If you spend one minute of Focus, regathering magical energies to you, then
you regain the attributes spent to cast these bound spells.
Spellbound may only be used for spells purchased under headers with this skill. These spells must be
non-beneficial and cost attributes; per-event spells may not be Spellbound. When you rest to refresh
Void, you lose any bound spells and can no longer regain those attributes.

The Sphere of Manipulation 2
You may purchase spells from the Manipulation sphere.

The Sphere of Conjuration 2
You may purchase spells from the Conjuration sphere.

With a Divine Voice 2
You may spend 1 point of Fire to call out “Resist” to negate one Silence attack.




                                                                                                             107
Torchbearer Skills 4
You gain the Devout trait when you purchase this header.

Armored for War 2*
You may purchase this skill up to 2 times.
Each time you buy this skill, the number of Armor points you may gain from an armor prop is increased
by 1. You must wear a proper armor prop to use this skill.

Back to Guard 2
While wielding a melee weapon, you may spend 1 point of Water to call out "Disengage."

Buckler 2
You may use a buckler to block melee and missile attacks. Your primary weapon cannot be longer than
46” while using a buckler, and you can only use one buckler or shield at any time.

Combat Anticipation 3
You may spend 3 seconds and 1 point of Air to call out “Purge” to end one Agony or Maim effect.

Darkness, My Enemy 2
You may exhaust a point of Earth to call "3 Damage to Darkness" with a melee attack up to two times.
You exhaust the attribute the first time you swing using this effect. One use is consumed if the strike
lands and the opponent acknowledges it with role play or negates it with a defense. You need not use
the strikes consecutively. Uncalled strikes and other skills may be used between uses of this skill. Any
remaining strikes are lost when the event ends or when you refresh attributes.

Dawn’s Light 2
When you successfully land the attack from Searing Light, and a defence does not negate it, you may call
out “Heal 2 to Self.”

A Desperate Defense 2
While wielding a melee weapon you are skilled with, you may spend 2 points of Earth to call out “Parry”
to negate a melee attack that strikes you.

Heart of the Lion 1
You may spend 1 point of Fire to call out “Resist” to negate one attack with the Fear trait.
You may spend 2 Fire to call out “Resist” to negate one attack that inflicts Stress.

Heart of Radiance 2
You spend 1 point of Fire to call out “Resist by Light” to negate one attack with the Darkness, Despair, or
Ice traits.




                                                                                                        108
Divine Light 1
Once per event, you may call out “Imbue by Light” to gain 4 uses of the skill “Darkness, My Enemy”
delivered “by Light” rather than "to Darkness.”

Radiant Attack 1
You may spend 1 point of Earth to make a melee or missile attack for “5 Damage by Light.”

Reveal the Darkness 2
You may spend 1 point of Air to call out, "By My Voice, Expose Darkness by Sol."

Searing Light 1
You may spend 1 point of Air to make a melee attack for "Agony by Light."

Shield 2
Prerequisite: Buckler
This skill allows you to use a full-sized shield to block melee and missile attacks. You cannot throw
packet-delivered effects while you have a full-sized shield in your hand. Your primary weapon cannot be
longer than 46” while using a shield, and you can only use one buckler or shield at any time.

The Will to Live 1
Once per event, you may call out “Reduce” to a Death effect and instead become Unstable with no
Vitality or Armor.
This skill does not work against a Death Strike, nor does it protect you if you die from bleeding out. You
may use this skill even if you are unconscious.




                                                                                                        109
Transmuter Skills 2
Characters with the Transmuter header gain the Arcane trait. All spells purchased under this header are
arcane spells.
Skills in this header affect Transmutation, which is covered in detail later in this rulebook.

Caster of Runes 0
You may draw up to 5 Runes when casting a Transmutation.

The Fountain of Power 2
Once per Transmutation, you may choose to place a Rune you just drew into the Fountain of Power
instead of on The Road.

Internal Reserves 1
Once per event, you may use your attributes instead of components by spending 1 point of an attribute
(Air, Earth, Fire, or Water) to replace 2 components of the same type.
When this skill is used, the item created may only contain first-level effects, expires at the end of the
event, and can only be attuned to the caster.

Magician’s Assistant 1
Prerequisite: The Fountain of Power, The Null, and The Void.
Once per event, you may declare yourself as an assistant with the permission of the primary artificer.
During the course of the Transmutation, you may use one of the following abilities: The Fountain of
Power, The Null, Sleight of Hand, or Upon the Road.
This skill allows 2 runes to occupy The Fountain of Power and The Null positions. Note that The Void is
not a usable skill as an assistant.

Master of Runes 2
Prerequisite: Caster of Runes.
You may draw up to 10 Runes when casting a Transmutation.

The Null 1
Once per Transmutation, you may place a rune you just drew into the Null instead of on The Road.

Palm the Coin 1
Once per event, immediately after you draw a rune, you may choose to place that rune back into the bag
and draw again. This redraw does not count towards your total number of draws.

Sleight of Hand 2
Once per Transmutation, you may remove 2 cards in play and move them to the discard pile.

The Sphere of Alteration 2
This skill allows you to learn spells from the Alteration sphere.


                                                                                                            110
Transmuters Edge 4
Once per event, you may perform a Transmutation to empower your skills. Perform a Transmutation that
has at least five runes drawn and achieves a positive flaw pool of at least 15. In cases of catastrophic
failure, it may be possible to receive a Flaw when using this skill.

If you succeed, you gain one of the following effects for the remainder of the event.

    ●​ Spell-like Ability. You gain 4 points of a pool of healing energy. You may spend a point from this
       pool to make a touch attack for "Heal by Magic.” The points from your pool may be refreshed by
       spending 1 minute of Focus.
    ●​ Spell-like Ability. You gain 5 points of a pool of harmful energy. You may spend a point from this
       pool to make an uncalled missile attack. The points from your pool may be refreshed by
       spending 1 minute of Focus.
    ●​ You gain the ability to manifest weapons of pure light. The weapon must be a one-handed melee
       weapon, a buckler, or a staff. You may use your weapon to make melee attacks, if applicable, and
       block melee strikes. If one of these weapons takes a Destroy effect, you may Focus for one
       minute to Repair the weapon. Additionally, twice per event, you may call “Resist” to a Destroy or
       Disarm effect that targets the weapon of light.

Upon the Road 2
Once per Transmutation, you may swap the positions of 2 adjacent runes on The Road as long as neither
of the runes is on the first step of The Road.

The Void 3
Once per Transmutation, you may choose to place a rune you just drew from the bag into the Void
instead of placing it on The Road and draw again. This redraw does not count towards your total number
of draws.




                                                                                                      111
Troubadour Skills 2
Characters with the Troubadour header gain the Arcane trait. All spells purchased under this header are
arcane spells.
Your passion for music allows you to manifest magic when you perform. All spells purchased under this
header are devotion spells. Spells purchased under this header do not use normal incantations. Each
spell must have a unique musical incantation that is at least four times as long as a normal spell. Your
songs require 16 syllables plus an additional 8 syllables for each character point of cost. This song
replaces the normal incantation of the spell. This song must be appropriate to the setting, and include
the Sphere and some form of the name of the spell. It must be submitted and approved by Staff in the
same manner as custom spell incantations.
In addition to your spells, many of your skills require a performance before you can use them. Although
most Troubadours perform music, any form of performance art is considered in this context. When a skill
requires a performance, it requires you to present some kind of art to a live audience. The presentation
must take at least one minute, and the audience must respond with applause. When the applause
comes, you have fulfilled the condition of the performance, and you may use your skill as appropriate.

Act of Passion 1
Once per event, you may empower this skill with a performance, as described above. Once empowered,
you gain 3 points of Passion. These points may be spent on any skill or spell in place of attribute points.
You may spend them one at a time or all at once as you see fit. These extra points cannot be refreshed
and fade at the end of the event.

Aria of Courage 4
Spell-like Ability
You may plant your feet, spend 2 points of Fire, and begin to sing. So long as you sing and do not move
your feet, you may make a touch attack for "Cure Fear by Inspiration" as part of the song you have
prepared. You may not interrupt the song to say the verbal, and you must have at least 8 words between
each use of the verbal. The song is interrupted if any hostile melee, missile, or packet strike strikes you.
Once during this song, you may make a packet attack for "Cure Stress by Will."
If two troubadours both have this skill, they may work in tandem so long as both are within arm's reach
of each other and obey the restrictions of the skill. One may sing a verse while the other harmonizes by
singing the "Cure Fear by Inspiration" verbal. The second troubadour may cure a person each time they
sing that verbal in harmony with their partner and need not wait between uses of the skill. In this case,
each troubadour may spend only 1 point of Fire.

Awakening the Young Heart 2
You may make a touch attack for “Diagnose [Initiate, Experienced, or Accomplished] trait.”
If the target has the Initiate trait, you may inspire them with a performance. After a performance, you
may spend 1 point of Water to make a touch attack for "Refresh Void to Initiate."
You must inform the recipient that they may be affected by this skill only once per event.
If you purchase this skill, you can not be affected by it. If you receive a "Refresh Void to Initiate" effect,
you must call “No Effect.”




                                                                                                             112
Bringing Music to the Hearth 4
Spell-like Ability
After you deliver a performance, as described above, you may spend 2 points of Fire to call out "By My
Voice, Heal 2 by Magic."

Chorus of Harmonic Focus 2
Prerequisite: Song of the Arcanum.
Spell-like Ability
Once per event, you may deliver a performance with at least 2 others who have this skill. The
performance must be at least one minute long, although most are longer. Each performer must have a
part that complements the others involved. If you cannot find 2 others with this skill, you may substitute
one or two other people who are willing to perform with you. Spend 1 point of Air or Song of the
Arcanum for each person without this skill that you include. If you already have two others with this skill,
additional participants may join at no cost if they are involved solely to enhance the performance's
quality or scope.
If you perform your piece and the audience applauds, then you may refresh 2 points of Harmony from
Song of the Arcanum, and you are empowered with Harmonic Focus.
You may spend 1 Harmonic Focus to cast a beneficial touch spell without an incantation. You need only
touch the recipient with a packet and say the verbal to cast the spell.
You cannot be empowered with more than one use of this skill at a time. Harmonic Focus points fade at
the end of the event. You may still help others with their performance for this skill, but they can only
benefit from this effect once per event.

Legend Lore 3
Information Skill
You know many of the bards and storytellers that travel the merchant's road, spreading tales and
gathering bits of news and lore. You may research the legends and stories of the land to look for
information on a particular subject or item. The more legendary the information is, the more
information this skill provides. If you spread some money around, you often hear rumors or tales about
the things other traveling troubadours have seen and legends they might have heard. This is an
information skill that requires you to spread some money around to loosen lips. You submit a question
between events as described in the Information Skills section above. If the question is appropriate for
the troubadours who travel the merchant's road, you may receive knowledge appropriate to your
question.

Musical Focus 1
Three times per event, you may empower this skill with a performance, as described above. Once
empowered, you may call “Purge Mental” to remove all Mental effects. This empowerment fades at the
end of the event.

Restored Will 2
You may spend 3 seconds of Focus to make a touch attack for "Cure Will by Inspiration."




                                                                                                        113
Slander 1
Information Skill.
You may, between events, submit to plot small snippets of your lyrics or art that somehow slander or
trash-talk a corporate, social, or political figure. You are publicly attempting to embarrass the figure. This
could lead to a decline in reputation, cause an increase in those who challenge the figure, or cause
others to investigate the target’s movements more carefully. This skill makes life more difficult for the
target, but it is common knowledge who is doing the slander, so most powerful figures attempt to return
the favor. Usually in the form of armed thugs with little concern about the time of day or night.

Song of the Arcanum 3*
You may purchase this skill up to 2 times.
Each purchase of this skill gives you 1 point of Harmony. Harmony points may be spent instead of Air,
Earth, Fire, or Water when casting spells from any header you have. All Harmony points are refreshed
when you use Void to refresh attributes.
Spells cast using Harmony points do not use normal incantations. Each spell must have a unique musical
incantation that is at least four times as long as a normal spell. Your songs require 16 syllables plus an
additional 8 syllables for each character point of spell cost. This song replaces the normal incantation of
the spell.
Music and lyrics for arcane and divine spells must be submitted and approved before you use this skill to
cast them.

The Sphere of Restoration 2
This skill allows you to learn spells from the Restoration sphere. These spells are purchased and used like
skills, except that the incantations are longer and must have a musical or performance component.




                                                                                                          114
Warrior Skills 4
Armored for War 2*
You may purchase this skill up to 2 times.
Each time you buy this skill, the number of Armor points you may gain from an armor prop is increased
by 1. You must wear a proper armor prop to use this skill.

Back to Guard 2
While wielding a melee weapon, you may spend 1 point of Water to call out "Disengage."

Buckler 2
You can use a buckler to block melee and missile attacks. Your primary weapon cannot be longer than
46” while using a buckler, and you can only use one buckler or shield at any time.

Evasive 3
Prerequisite: Celerity.
Celerity now provides 3 armor points.

Combat Anticipation 3
You may spend 3 seconds and 1 point of Air to call out “Purge” and end one Agony or Maim effect.

A Crippling Blow 1
You may spend 2 Earth to make a melee attack for "Maim" and strike a limb.

Critical Strike 2
You spend 1 point of Earth to make a melee attack for "5 Damage."

A Desperate Defense 2
While wielding a melee weapon you are skilled with, you may spend 2 points of Earth to call out “Parry”
to negate a melee attack that strikes you.

A Flurry of Strikes 2
You may spend 1 point of Water to gain 2 melee attacks for “2 Damage.” Any remaining attacks are lost
when the event ends or when you refresh attributes.

Heart of the Lion 1
You may spend 1 point of Fire to call out “Resist” to negate one attack with the Fear trait. Alternatively,
you may spend 2 Fire to call out “Resist” to negate one attack that inflicts stress.

Last Stand 1
Once per event, you may call out “Resist by Will” to negate a melee attack.




                                                                                                         115
Leveraged Block 1
While wielding a two-handed melee weapon and one of your arms is affected by a Maim effect, you may
call “Reduce.” You cannot attack, but you can block attacks as usual, and use game skills that allow you to
call out a Defense and require you to be using a melee weapon. You cannot use this skill again until the
Maim is cured. The ability to block ends if your other arm takes a Maim, or you take a second Maim to
the first arm.

A Little Something Extra 2
You may fight with a medium melee weapon in your off-hand while fighting with a 46” weapon in your
primary hand.

Reinforced Armaments 1
Twice per event you may resist a Destroy effect that would destroy your buckler or shield; call out
“Resist” to negate the attack. If you are not using a buckler or shield you may resist a Destroy effect that
would destroy a weapon you are wielding.

Resilience 2
You may spend 3 seconds of Focus and 1 point of Water to call out "Heal 3 to Self."

Shield 2
Prerequisite: Buckler.
This skill allows you to use a full-sized shield to block melee and missile attacks. You cannot throw
packet-delivered effects while you have a full-sized shield in your hand. Your primary weapon cannot be
longer than 46” while using a shield, and you can only use one buckler or shield at any time.

Shrug It Off 1
Once per event, you may call “Resist and Refresh 2 Earth to Self” to negate a melee or missile attack.

Steel Over Sorcery 2
You may spend 2 points of Fire to call out "Resist" to negate one packet attack with an Elemental trait
that strikes your weapon, buckler, or shield.

The Twin Threat 2
Prerequisite: A Little Something Extra.
This skill allows you to use any one-handed melee weapon in your off-hand.

The Will To Live 1
Once per event, you may call out “Reduce” to a Death effect and instead become Unstable with no
Vitality or Armor.
This skill does not work against a Death Strike, nor does it protect you if you die from bleeding out. You
may use this skill even if you are unconscious.




                                                                                                          116
Weaponsmith Skills 4
Armored for War 2*
You may purchase this skill up to 2 times.
Each time you buy this skill, the number of Armor points you may gain from an armor prop is increased
by 1. You must wear a proper armor prop to use this skill.

Buckler 2
You can use a buckler to block melee and missile attacks. Your primary weapon cannot be longer than
46” while using a buckler, and you can only use one buckler or shield at any time.

A Desperate Defense 2
While wielding a melee weapon you are skilled with, you may spend 2 points of Earth to call out “Parry”
to negate a melee attack that strikes you.

Fire Hardened 3
Due to your continuous exposure to the forge, you have become resistant to the elements, you may
spend 2 points of Fire to resist one attack based on an Elemental trait. You must call out "Resist" when
you use this skill.

Know Thine Weapon 3
Your meticulous attention to your weapons has rendered them resistant to breaking, you may exhaust a
point of Fire to resist one attack with the Destroy effect. You must call out "Resist" when you use this
skill.

My Heart, the Forge 3
Spell-like Ability
Spend a point of Air and deliver a touch effect for “Repair 2 Armor” to yourself, or two touch effects for
“Repair 2 Armor” to other characters. It is easier to repair armor when you aren’t wearing it.

Sharpened Blade 1
Once per event, call out “Imbue by Forging”, Your next 3 damage melee attacks have their damage
increased by 3.

Shield 2
Prerequisite: Buckler.
This skill allows you to use a full-sized shield to block melee and missile attacks. You cannot throw
packet-delivered effects while you have a full-sized shield in your hand. Your primary weapon cannot be
longer than 46” while using a shield, and you can only use one buckler or shield at any time.




                                                                                                        117
A Steel Shell 3
Prerequisite: 2 purchases of Armored for War.
When you are wearing an armor prop worth 4 points, and you spend 1 minute repairing it, you gain a
“Guard” defense to negate the first melee attack with the Agony, called Damage, or Maim effect that
strikes you.

Strengthened Armor 5
Prerequisite: 2 purchases of Armored for War.
The number of Armor points you may gain from an armor prop is increased by 1. You must have a proper
armor prop to use this skill.

Stoke the Forge 1
Once per event, you may call out “Imbue by Forge,” to gain 10 touch attacks for “Repair 2 Armor by
Forge.” Any remaining uses are lost when the event ends or when you refresh attributes.




                                                                                                      118
Wizard Skills 3
Characters with the Wizard header gain the Arcane trait. All spells purchased under this header are
arcane spells.
Some skills require you to construct and use an Arcane Sanctum. This is a mystical circle you create
where you can focus your energies. The sanctum must have a large 3’ circle on the floor or wall
decorated with runes and arcane symbols. To focus your energies, you sit in the circle or, if space is tight
and the circle is on a wall, sit under it or close enough to be able to touch it. If you have more than one
skill requiring an ornate container with arcane stones you may use, if you choose, one container holding
stones with different colors for each skill.
When you Focus in your Arcane Sanctum, you may refresh all skills associated with it at the same time.
You may role play with others while Focusing within your sanctum. Skills that require an Arcane Sanctum
may only be applied to Arcane spells.

Arcane Flux 1
At the beginning of the event, place an ornate goblet, bowl, bag, or other container in your Arcane
Sanctum. Place two counters (i.e., stones, gems, or crystals) into the container for each spell you
purchased from this header.
After 1 minute of Focus in your Arcane Sanctum, you may spend one counter to gain two castings of
non-beneficial Arcane spells you know that cost 1 attribute point to cast (these may be the same spell).
These spells last until used, or you use Arcane Flux again.

Arcane Resonance 2
You may spend 1 point of Fire to call out “Resist” to negate one Silence attack.

Compartmentalize 1
You may spend 1 point of Fire to call “Resist” and temporarily negate one point of Stress. The next time
you use Void to rest your attribute, all Inflict Stress effects negated by this skill take effect.

Force Bolts 1
Spell-like Ability
You have a pool of 10 magical force bolts that you use for uncalled missile attacks. You refresh your pool
to 10 by spending one minute of Focus gathering magical energy.

Fortress of Earth 1
Spell-like Ability
You may spend 1 point of Earth, clasp your hands above your head, and call out “Imbue by Earth” to gain
the Spirit defense for 10 seconds. Your hands and arms must be free; you cannot be holding any item or
carrying a shield. Once you become a Spirit, you cannot move or choose to end this effect for the full 10
seconds. While in Spirit form, you call “Spirit” to negate any attack that does not have a Mental trait or a
“to Spirit” trait, and if that attack is not beneficial, it ends the Spirit defense.
You may extend the duration by 10 seconds by exhausting 1 point of Earth and calling out “Imbue by
Earth.” If you do so, you cannot voluntarily end the effect for another 10 seconds.
Once the effect ends, you cannot use this skill again until you rest for 1 minute in your Arcane Sanctum.


                                                                                                         119
Infusion 3
Once per event, you may call out “Imbue by Infusion” to gain 2 Infusion points for your Air, Earth, Fire,
and Water attributes. These temporary attribute points are used to cast packet-delivered Arcane spells
that require the appropriate attribute. You must spend these points when casting packet-delivered
Arcane spells before exhausting the underlying attributes. These points cannot be refreshed with Void,
though they can be refreshed with the Spellbound skill.

Spellbound 1
Your offensive spells that fail to harm the target are not truly expended. When you throw a
packet-delivered spell, if it does not hit anyone, or the target calls No Effect, Spirit, or Avoid to negate it,
that spell is bound to you. If you spend one minute of Focus, regathering magical energies to you, then
you regain the attributes spent to cast these bound spells.
Spellbound may only be used for spells purchased under headers with this skill. These spells must be
non-beneficial and cost attributes; per-event spells may not be Spellbound. When you rest to refresh
Void, you lose any bound spells and can no longer regain those attributes.

The Sphere of Evocation 2
This skill allows you to learn spells from the Evocation sphere. These spells are purchased and used like
skills.

The Sphere of Conjuration 2
This skill allows you to learn spells from the Conjuration sphere. These spells are purchased and used like
skills.

Staff of the Arcane 3
Prerequisite: Melee Weapon - Staff.
This skill allows you to hold and use any staff while you are casting spells, overriding the restriction that
casting requires both hands to be empty.

With An Arcane Word 1
Once per event, you may spend one minute of Focus performing a personal ritual. At the end of the
ritual, call out “By My Voice, Refresh 1 Fire to Arcane.”




                                                                                                             120
Magic
Arcane is the magical energy that flows from place to place. Mystery and wonder cause Arcane to gather,
while rational and logical thought disperse it. A mage learns to shape Arcane through creativity and
imagination. Casting spells is the process of using Arcane to cause an effect to occur.
Mages speak of another realm of magic called the Arcanum from which all Arcane flows. This realm is
divided into six spheres, and so Arcane is divided into six spheres. Different types of mages learn to
manipulate Arcane from different spheres. The spheres are Restoration, Evocation, Illusion, Conjuration,
Alteration, and Manipulation.
In addition, the most depraved casters use magic from the forbidden sphere of Corruption to enslave
and eat away at body and spirit. It is a crime to use spells of Corruption by decree of the High Church and
by the College of Wizardry.

Gaining Magic
Certain skill headers allow you to purchase specific spheres of magic. When you purchase a sphere of
magic, you can purchase any of the spells available under that sphere. All spells purchased within a
sphere are also considered to be purchased within the header under which the sphere was purchased.
Each spell is purchased using character points and can be used in the same manner as a normal skill.

Using Magic
Magical spells all allow you to summon a tremendous amount of power, but they have limitations. Spells
require a good deal of concentration to invoke. Both hands must be empty, and both arms must be free
to move to cast spells. Specific skills allow you to hold a weapon in your off hand while casting, the hand
and arm delivering the spell must be free.
You cannot invoke spells while you are being struck by an attack that damages you. You cannot deliver
spells with an arm that cannot use game skills. You must be able to speak to cast a spell, unless you can
cast that spell without an incantation. Furthermore, spells that are delivered by packet have all of the
restrictions of that attack form.
Casting a spell requires you to recite a short phrase, called an incantation, before calling out the verbal.
Only after both are completed can you throw the packet. The incantation is an in-game phrase, and if an
effect prevents you from speaking, you normally cannot cast a spell. If you are damaged or rendered
unable to cast the spell during the incantation or the verbal, the spell is ruined. You do not exhaust
attributes (or the equivalent) if a spell is interrupted.
Although mages create their own incantations when they learn a spell, they cannot simply make up
incantations as they see fit. An incantation must be personalized and approved as part of the learning
process. The incantation should contain the sphere of the spell and also some form of the name. The
name does not have to be incanted exactly, but the incantation should indicate at least part of the name.
Cupbearers and other Divine characters must include the name of Aurethiel in the Incantation instead of
the sphere of the spell. An incantation must have a number of syllables equal to twice the cost of the
spell plus 4. If a spell costs 2 character points, for example, the incantation length must be at least 8
syllables.




                                                                                                         121
It has been observed that powerful casters can use spells without incantations. This arch-magic comes
when a mage is so skilled that they may set reality aside and bind Arcane with sheer force of will.
Without the time required to speak the incantation, this magic is quick and therefore deadly. If you wish
to achieve this level of mastery, you must acquire the necessary knowledge and skills throughout the
game.

Imbued Spells
Some spells use an Imbue effect but specify that they cannot be cast on others. For these spells, since
the person receiving them must know the spell, there is no need for an Imbue card; the Imbue
description is the spell description itself.




                                                                                                      122
Spell Types
Spells of Alteration
The Broken Path 3
You may spend 1 point of Earth to make a packet attack for "Slow by Earth."

Contagion 3
You may spend 1 point of Fire, and call out "Imbue by Alteration to Self.” You gain the Spell-like Ability to
make 2 packet attacks for "2 Damage by Disease.”
This ability is lost if you cast this spell again, when you refresh attributes with Void, or when the event
ends.

Curse of Age 1
You may spend 1 point of Air to make a packet attack for "Agony by Aging."

Freedom of Movement 5
You may spend 1 point of Earth to make a packet attack for "Cure Physical by Magic."

Imprison 3
You may spend 2 points of Earth to make a packet attack for "Paralyze by Earth."

Mystic Armor 2
Prerequisite: Celerity
Celerity now provides 3 armor points.

On Your Feet Again 1
You may spend 1 point of Fire to make a packet or touch attack for "Cure 1 Maim [Limb] by Magic."

Stolen Voice 3
You may spend 1 point of Air to make a packet attack for "Silence by Cold."
If your opponent roleplays taking this effect, you gain a Spell-like Ability to make a packet attack for
“Cure Silence by Cold.”
This ability is lost if you cast this spell again, when you refresh attributes with Void, or when the event
ends.




                                                                                                           123
Spells of Conjuration
Ash Storm 4
You may spend 2 points of Fire to make a packet attack for "Drain by Earth."

Break Bones 2
You may spend 1 point of Earth to make a packet attack for "Maim [Limb] by Force."

Claw Shape 1
You may spend 1 point of Fire to prepare your legal claw props. You gain the ability to fight with a long
claw in each hand to make melee attacks and block melee and missile attacks.
For skills, Claws are a type of melee weapon. You may not fight with claws and other weapons or a
buckler or shield. The time it takes to prepare the claws or put them away is the same as the time it
takes to grow or retract the claws.
This ability is lost when you refresh attributes with Void, or when the event ends.

Crushing Bonds 1
You may spend 1 point of Earth to make a packet attack for "Root by Force."

Life Steal 3
You may spend 1 point of Earth to make a packet attack for "2 Damage by Cold."
If the target is affected by the damage, you gain 1 mote of Life Force. You may spend Life Force to call out
"Heal 2 to Self" or make the Spell-like Ability to make a touch attack for "Heal 2 by Will."
This ability is lost if you cast this spell again, when you refresh attributes with Void, or when the event
ends.

Seven Mile Step 4
You can slip into the spirit realm and travel for a short distance safely before you are forced back into the
real world. The spell requires a small gold or yellow ring to represent a portal. The ring is a throwing
weapon that is 6" across, although the prop for the "ring" can also be a disk or a ball. Mark the ring with
a red circle to show that others cannot touch your ring.
You may spend 2 points of Water and call out, "Imbue by Seven Mile Step” then throw your ring. You
gain the Spirit defense and begin walking slowly towards your ring. Any effect with the "to Spirit" trait
that is not beneficial knocks you out of spirit form and ends this effect wherever you were struck. Upon
arriving, call out "Imbue to Spirit" to step back into this world to end the effect.
So long as people engaged in combat does not bar your way, travel as directly to your ring as possible. If
there are too many combatants in your way, you may pause until a safe opening appears for you to
continue. While traveling, you cannot attempt to interfere with any actions by blocking or catching
attacks. If the ring passes through any kind of Gate, the spell ends immediately.
If you cannot find the ring or cannot reach the ring within 5 minutes, then your spirit is lost to the spirit
realm. You become a Spirit of the Dead and travel to the Vaelion Doors.




                                                                                                           124
The Soothing Touch 2
You may spend 1 point of Water, and call out "Imbue by Magic to Self” to gain the Spell-like Ability to
make a touch attack for "Stabilize" at will.
This ability is lost when you refresh attributes with Void, or when the event ends.

Thorn Lash 2
You may spend 1 point of Air to make a packet attack for "5 Damage by Thorns."




                                                                                                          125
Spells of Manipulation
All Hope is Gone 3
You may spend 2 points of Earth to make a packet attack for "Drain by Despair."

A Command to Step Aside 2
You may spend 1 point of Air to make a packet attack for "Repel by Will."

Disarm 3
You may spend 1 point of Air to make a packet attack for "Disarm [Hand] by Will."

Free the Mind 3
You may spend 1 point of Air to make a packet attack for "Cure Mental by Will.”
You may spend 2 points of Air to make a packet attack for "Cure 1 Stress by Will."

Spare Not the Rod 3
You may spend 1 point of Fire and call out "Imbue by Manipulation to Self.” You gain the Spell-like Ability
to make 2 packet attacks for "2 Damage by Will.”
This ability is lost if you cast this spell again, when you refresh attributes with Void, or when the event
ends.

Struck Silent 2
You may spend 1 point of Air to make a packet attack for "Silence by Will."

The Swift Hand of Vengeance 4
You may spend 3 points of Fire to make a packet attack for "Death by Will."

The Unseen Hand 1
Many beings are touched by the strands of Manipulation as they make deals and receive orders from
someone with more purpose. You attempt to identify those strands and read them, gaining insights into
who might ultimately be responsible for their actions.
Once per event, when an enemy has been defeated, you may attempt to find strands that reveal those
plans. Touch a helpless, unconscious, or dead subject, and call out "Speak with Manipulation" to whisper
"Who is responsible for this?" to that individual. If you receive a call of “No Effect,” you do not lose the
use of this skill.
This is a difficult spell to use. Mindless creatures and minions that have not dealt directly with the enemy
may lack strong enough strands of Manipulation. More intelligent foes are more likely to understand the
plans in motion and therefore make better targets. For some enemies, the strands of Manipulation are
empowered, and spirits enter the individual and whisper some bit of knowledge to you about who might
be leading, hiring, or empowering your enemies.




                                                                                                          126
Spells of Evocation
Barrage 1
You may spend 1 point of Air and call out “Imbue by Evocation” to instantly refresh your Force Bolts pool
of attacks.

The Drowning Foe 1
You may spend 1 point of Water to make a packet attack for "Agony by Water."

Engulf 3
You may spend 2 points of Earth to make a packet attack for "Paralyze by Earth."

Fire Storm 4
You may spend 2 points of Fire and call out "Imbue by Evocation to Self.” You gain the Spell-like Ability to
make 5 packet attacks for "2 Damage by Fire.”
This ability is lost if you cast this spell again, when you refresh attributes with Void, or when the event
ends.

Roots Run Deep 1
You may spend 1 point of Earth to make a packet attack for "Root by Earth."

Winter's Breath 2
You may spend 1 point of Air to make a packet attack for "5 Damage by Ice."

Unravel the Elements 3
You may spend 1 point of Water to make a packet attack for "Cure Elemental by Magic."




                                                                                                          127
Spells of Restoration
A Blessing of Health 1
You may spend 1 point of Water to call out “Imbue by Magic to Self.” You gain the Spell-like Ability to
make 2 packet attacks for "Heal 2 by Magic."
This ability is lost if you cast this spell again, when you refresh attributes with Void, or when the event
ends.

The Clear Road 1
You may spend 1 point of Fire to make a packet or touch attack for "Cure Root by Magic."

Freedom of Movement 5
You may spend 1 point of Earth to make a packet or touch attack for "Cure Physical by Magic."

On Your Feet Again 1
You may spend 1 point of Fire to make a packet or touch attack for "Cure 1 Maim [Limb] by Magic."

Purity of Form 4
You may spend 1 point of Earth to make a packet or touch attack for "Cure Metabolic by Magic."

The Smile of Good Fortune 2
You call the blessings of Fate down upon you to protect you from untimely death. You may only have one
of these spells active at any time, and you cannot cast this spell on others.
You may spend 2 points of Fire and call out "Imbue by Magic to Self” to gain the ability to save your life
in one of two ways.
You may use this ability to call out “Reduce” to a Death effect and instead become Unstable with no
Vitality or Armor.
Alternatively, if you are unstable for a minute and are about to die due to blood loss, you may use this
ability to become Stable.
This ability is lost if you cast this spell again, when you refresh attributes with Void, or when the event
ends.

The Soothing Touch 2
You may spend 1 point of Water, and call out "Imbue by Magic to Self” to gain the Spell-like Ability to
make a touch attack for "Stabilize" at will.
This ability is lost when you refresh attributes with Void, or when the event ends.




                                                                                                          128
Writ of the Vaelion Door 2
You attempt to manipulate Fate by giving your blessing to a Spirit of the Dead who has begun the
journey to the Vaelion Doors. Before casting this spell, you must prepare a written request to the keeper
of the Vaelion Doors that the spirit be returned safely. The request must be rolled or neatly folded and
sealed with wax or ribbon.
When the target is a Spirit of the Dead, before they reach the Vaelion Door, you may spend 1 point of Air
to make a touch attack for "Imbue to Spirit," and hand them the scroll. Instruct the spirit that they must
read the scroll to the Keeper of the Vaelion Door if requested to do so, and their passion in this reading
may affect the decision of the Keeper.
If nothing removes the spell and the request pleases the Keeper, the spirit may negate the effects of one
draw if they wish to do so and take a second draw to replace it from the Vaelion Deck. The spirit must
abide by the results of the second draw if they choose to do this, regardless of the result of the first
draw.




                                                                                                      129
Spells of Illusion
The Displaced Image 3
You may spend 2 points of Water, and call out "Imbue by Illusion to Self” to gain the ability to call “Elude”
to negate the first called melee, missile, or packet attack that strikes you. You the Illusion trait while it is
active.
This ability is lost if you cast this spell again, when you refresh attributes with Void, or when the event
ends.

Dreams of Another 2
Once per event, you may call out the dreams, perceptions, and passions of another willing character who
is familiar with this spell and understands its effect. Both of you must be fully refreshed; no attributes
except Void can be spent. You speak the incantation, Focus for one minute, and say "Imbue by Illusion."
Any ability that ends when you refresh attributes with Void ends when you use this ability.
You both switch character cards and gain the Illusion trait. You gain the skills and attributes of the
recipient, and they gain your skills and attributes. It is common for characters under this effect to
demonstrate quirks and passions of the personality of the character they have swapped with. While
active, you cannot refresh attributes using Void, and you are unaffected by Refresh effects.
Heritage skills and traits, manifest headers, Imbues, Inflicts, and active effects are not swapped. Per
Event skills and spells cannot be used. If you are unfamiliar with a skill on the card, it cannot be used.
This effect is lost when the event ends. You may end the effect early by spending one minute of Focus
with the recipient and calling out "Imbue by Illusion" to swap back your character cards. When the effect
ends, the attributes of both characters are fully exhausted, as well as any effects granted by one of the
swapped skills.

Hallucinatory Terrain 1
You may spend 1 point of Earth to make a packet attack for "Slow by Confusion."

The Illusion Exposed 1
You may spend 1 point of Air and call out, "By My Voice, Expose Illusion by Magic."

A Mask of Fright 1
You may spend 1 point of Fire to make a packet attack for "Repel by Fear."

A Moment of Clarity 3
You may spend 1 point of Air to make a packet attack for "Cure Mental by Will."
You may spend 2 points of Air to make a packet attack for "Cure 1 Stress by Will."




                                                                                                             130
Send Dreams 1
You conjure dreams and send them forth into the Dream Realm to find their way to others. If you use
this skill between events, you may prepare a description of the dream to be sent to a specific recipient
you know by name. This description is not a letter, but instead must be written as one might experience
a dream. This dream is sent, along with the recipient's name and description, to the plot staff. A spirit of
the Dream Realm attempts to visit the recipient and deliver the dream to them. You may send one
dream between events.
There are certain characters who, through powerful magic or natural gifts, attract energies and spirits of
the Dream Realm. If you convince these characters to help, you can cast this spell during an event.
Prepare a physical manifestation of your dream on parchment. You must include the name and
description of the recipient at the top of the dream and a description of the dream underneath. The
parchment and writing must be of reasonable quality. Spend 1 point of Air and cast this spell in the
presence of a willing character so infused with the Dream Realm. You may hand the manifestation of the
dream to them to complete the spell. In time, the dream is sent forth into the Dream Realm and finds its
way to the recipient.
There may be creatures and effects that can block or intercept attempts to Send Dreams.

The Shattered Mirror 3
You may spend 2 points of Air to make a packet attack for "Drain by Confusion."

The Tearing of the Dream 1
You may spend 1 point of Fire to make a packet attack for "10 Damage to Illusion."

The World Is an Illusion 5
You may spend 2 points of Earth and call out "Imbue by Illusion" to gain the Illusion trait and the
Spell-like Ability to call out "Imbue by Illusion," clasp your hands in front of you, and gain the Spirit
defense so long as you do not move. Any attack that is "to Illusion" or "to Spirit" affects you and, if it is
not beneficial, knocks you out of Spirit form. Otherwise, you stay in spirit form until you choose to move.
When you leave the spirit form, the spell ends, and you lose the Spirit and Illusion traits.
This ability is lost if you cast this spell again, when you refresh attributes with Void, or when the event
ends.




                                                                                                          131
Domicile Enhancements
Overview
To foster immersion and enhance the atmospheric quality of in-game spaces, players are encouraged to
decorate their assigned cabins or lodgings in a manner consistent with the game’s setting. This involves
concealing modern conveniences where feasible and incorporating thematic elements that evoke the
world of In Darkened Dreams. Such enhancements not only enrich the role-playing experience but also
grant mechanical benefits during periods of rest within the domicile.

Guidelines for Enhancements
    ●​ Modern items such as beverages in contemporary packaging, bedding, electronic devices, and
       similar conveniences may be present but should be stored out of sight to maintain immersion.
       Players are not penalized for brief, necessary access to these items, such as retrieving a drink
       during urgent moments.
    ●​ Decorating the outside of domiciles is encouraged.
    ●​ The focus is on mindfulness throughout the event, with spaces designed to prioritize thematic
       consistency without compromising comfort or safety.

Enhancement Categories
Players may qualify for benefits by incorporating decorations from the following categories.
    ●​ Banners: One or more banners displaying heraldry or colors associated with a faction, family,
       kingdom (e.g., Soleilmarche, Virelle), or other organizations within the setting.
    ●​ Curtained Bunks and Storage Areas: Fabric or coverings used to conceal bedding and storage
       spaces, such as under beds or in corners.
    ●​ Decorations and Paraphernalia: Actively displayed objects contributing to the in-game
       ambiance, including but not limited to religious symbols (e.g., Sol Road icons), artwork, boxes,
       scroll cases, maps, and showcased weapons or shields (not merely stored in piles).
    ●​ Smithing or Crafting Station: Props and decorations representing crafting areas, such as an anvil
       for arms and armor repair, alchemical beakers, magical paraphernalia, or similar thematic
       elements.
    ●​ Steins and Mugs: A stein, mug, or disposable cup with a crystalline or glassy appearance for each
       resident, used to pour drinks. Extras for guests are encouraged but not required.
    ●​ String Lights and/or Colored Light Bulbs: Perimeter string lights or colored bulbs in fixtures to
       replace harsh overhead lighting, enhancing the fantastical feel. Temporary use of brighter lights
       for practical purposes (e.g., setup or searching) does not negate benefits.
    ●​ Table and Chair Coverings: Fabric, decorations, or other means to obscure modern furniture and
       create an ambient, in-game atmosphere.

Staying Off-site
Players who stay off-site may be invited by other residents to join a domicile to gain the benefits of those
enhancements.


                                                                                                        132
If the player is invited into a Company, they are considered part of that Company's domicile.

Tenting
If the player is invited into a Company, they are considered part of that Company's domicile.
A tent may be connected to a domicile, allowing tent residents to benefit from the domicile's
enhancements when resting in either location. This connection is established with the consent of all
residents. Both locations must show an apparent connection between them (e.g., duplicate banners or
decorations). Tents should be close to the connected domicile.
Alternatively, players may turn their tent into a domicile by decorating its exterior and the surrounding
area. In this case, the tent itself qualifies as the “Curtained Bunks and Storage” category. Resting within
the decorated area around the tent provides the enhancement effects. Multiple tents may create a
communal domicile by forming a common space around a central resting location (e.g., a pavilion or
table).

Domicile Membership
Each player is assigned to one primary domicile for the event. Enhancement effects are gained when
refreshing attributes with Void inside your primary domicile or its connected decorated area.

Enhancement Effects
The number of enhancement categories achieved determines the number of auras available.
    ●​ 2 Categories: Select 1 Aura for the domicile, granting all residents access to that effect.
    ●​ 3 Categories: Once per event, each resident may extend a formal invitation to rest within the
       domicile. The guest gains access to that domicile’s active auras for that refresh, but does not
       receive the extra attribute point granted at 7 categories.
    ●​ 4 Categories: Select 2 Auras for the domicile, granting all residents access to those effects.
    ●​ 5 Categories: Grant all residents access to all 3 Aura effects.
    ●​ 7 Categories: Each resident gains one additional attribute point of their choice (Air, Earth, Fire, or
       Water). This additional attribute does not affect your total Vitality.

Auras
These are represented by yellow information cards placed inside the domicile near the entrance, stating:
"If this is your primary residence for this event, you gain the following enhancements each time you rest
within the residence to spend a Void to refresh your attributes."
    ●​ Aura of Protection: Gain 2 points of Protection.
    ●​ Soothing Aura: Gain a touch-delivered packet attack for "Heal 2 by Hearth."
    ●​ Volatile Aura: Gain a melee, missile, or packet attack for "3 Damage by Will."




                                                                                                         133
Faction Maintenance
Overview
Faction dues are a fundamental aspect of faction membership, serving as the financial contribution
required to maintain active status and access the benefits of faction affiliation. By paying these dues,
members ensure the faction can provide essential resources and support, including (but not limited) to:
nutritious meals, comfortable lodging, quality equipment, and other necessities required for
participation in events. This system reflects the mutual commitment between the faction and its
members, fostering a sense of community and shared responsibility. The dues help sustain the faction’s
operations, enabling it to support its members effectively while maintaining the infrastructure and
resources needed. The Gilman 13 is a small faction so it is essential that every member contribute or the
faction will not be able to pay the Argent Accords required fees. This maintenance only applies to
Factions so there is no additional maintenance needed for a herald to keep a company on the Argent
Accords tablets.

Standard Maintenance
Requirement: Must be paid at the beginning of each event.
Cost: 2 steel coins (the amount of coins you would receive from one purchase of the Craftsman skill).

Extra Maintenance
At the start of an event, players may pay an additional maintenance fee.
Cost: 20 steel coins (or 2 silver coins).
Benefit: The faction provides superior goods, equipment, or food. The character gains one of the
following benefits for the event:
    ●​ Armor: Add 1 to your maximum Physical Armor points.
    ●​ Vitality: Add 1 to your maximum Vitality.
    ●​ Attribute: Once per Void refresh, as you activate a skill or spell, you may reduce the cost by 1
       point of Air, Earth, Fire, or Water (this may reduce the cost to zero).
    ●​ Resistance: Once per Void refresh, you may call “Resist” to negate an attack with a Physical or
       Fear trait.

Consequences of Non-Payment
Failure to pay dues results in the faction providing substandard food and equipment.
    ●​ The character reduces their maximum Vitality by 1 point for the duration of the event.
    ●​ This penalty is cumulative for consecutive events where dues are unpaid. For example, missing
       dues for a second consecutive event results in a 2-point reduction, and so forth.
    ●​ This penalty may not bring a character to 0 Vitality.
    ●​ Removing the penalty requires 4 steel coins per missed payment at the start of an event.




                                                                                                          134
Transmutation
Transmutation is the main way that magical items are created. Though on rare occasions, Transmuters
can perform other magical feats with their arts, high magic that involves the runes is almost always used
to create magical items.
For someone to perform Transmutation, they must have the following: counters, a deck of playing cards,
two 25-piece rune sets with both sets being the same shapes but different colors, a bag used to pick the
runes from, and a mat with all the positions shown on the illustration below, and an item to be
transmuted. We encourage you to use other tools for flavor, but they are not required. Playing cards with
antiquated or fantastical designs are strongly encouraged.
To perform Transmutation, you must have a guide present. Almost any NPC Transmuters can act as a
guide, as well as many other named NPCs. However, there is no guarantee that a guide is accessible to
you at any given time. Expect that guides are available at least once per event.

Ritual Mat
Your mat must have the following positions:
The Road is where you place your rune draws. There are five positions along The Road. Positions 1, 3,
and 5 affect the Transmutation when it is complete. Positions 2 and 4 do not affect the Transmutation in
any way. You may choose to have positions 1, 3, and 5 be different shapes or colors to make this easy to
remember.
The Fountain of Power: A place for a rune to guarantee it affects the Transmutation.
The Void: A place for a rune to guarantee it does not affect the Transmutation.
The Null: A place for a rune that may end up affecting the ritual, or it may not.
    ●​ If you place a light rune within the null, you may choose whether it affects the ritual or not, but
       only if you have over 50 points in your positive flaw pool.
    ●​ If you place a shadow rune in The Null, it affects the ritual if the positive flaw pool is 20 or below.
    ●​ If there is more than one rune in The Null, adjudicate them individually.
    ●​ If the rune has any additional effect that did not occur because the rune was placed in The Null,
       it is adjudicated, if applicable, at the end of the Transmutation.
Positive Flaw Card Row: Where you place your cards drawn in a line so they can be easily read.
Negative Flaw Card Row: Where you place your cards drawn in a line so they can be easily read.
10 Turn Counter Positions: A place to put counters to keep track of which turn you are on.
Though it does not need to be on the mat, select an area for a Discard Area. Place any cards that are not
to be shuffled back into the deck or runes that are not to be placed back in your bag in this area.




                                                                                                          135
Performing the Ritual
Before beginning a transmutation, follow these steps in order with your guide:
    1.​ Declare Effects: Inform your guide of the specific effects you intend to add to the item. Each
        Item can have up to 5 effects cast on it
    2.​ Verify the source (if needed): If the effects are not listed in the Common Transmutation Book,
        show your guide the scroll from which you will cast them.
    3.​ Choose Item Duration: an item can be one weekend, one year or two years. Adjust the
        component cost accordingly.
    4.​ Present Components: to determine the component cost of a transmutation add the cost for all
        effects you are putting into the item then add the component cost for the chosen duration.
    5.​ Present Item: Show your guide the item to be transmuted. The target item must be one that was
        purchased in-game from a merchant, crafted by a character with the Craft skill, or created by the
        transmuter themselves (if they have the Craft skill).
    6.​ Declare which rune color represents light and which represents shadow.
    7.​ Lay out your mat, and place all your runes in your pick bag. Remove all four “5 cards” and place
        them in the negative flaw pool area of your mat, then shuffle your deck and set it down next to
        your mat.
Each turn consists of drawing two cards, picking a rune from your bag, placing your rune, and then
utilizing any skills you wish to change the board. You then start your next turn. Your skills dictate the
maximum number of turns you may take. The caster must complete at least two full turns plus one turn
for each level of the highest-level effect of the transmutation before they can choose to end the
enchantment. Their skills dictate their maximum number of turns.
At the end of a turn, if you choose to take another turn, ensure there are no empty spaces on The Road
to the left of your rune furthest along the road. Do this by moving runes to the left as needed to fill in
the empty spaces. This occurs from left to right along The Road.




                                                                                                         136
Order of Operations
    1.​ Place a counter to show which turn you are on.
    2.​ Shift all runes one position to the right. If there is a rune in position five, it is removed from the
        mat and placed back in your Discard Area. (The first turn, this step is skipped)
    3.​ Draw two cards and place them in the appropriate section of your mat.
            a.​ All even-numbered cards go in a row on the right side of the mat. This row represents
                power building toward a positive flaw. The Queen is considered even and adds 10 to the
                pool.
            b.​ All odd-numbered cards go in a row on the left side of the mat. This row represents
                power building toward a negative flaw. The Jack and King are considered odd and add 10
                each to the pool. Ace is also considered odd and adds 11.
            c.​ When a Joker is drawn, the card is set aside. After the ritual, if the Positive Flaw Card
                Total is higher, the Power component cost of the item is reduced by 10% rounded up. If
                the Negative Flaw Card Total is higher, the Power component cost of the item is
                increased by 10% rounded up. If two Jokers are drawn, it is increased or reduced by 20%.
    4.​ Draw a rune and place it in position 1 upon The Road.
            a.​ If the rune has an additional effect that occurs, adjudicate that effect only after the rune
                is placed upon the road.
            b.​ If the Rune is negated by the caster, the additional effect does not occur.
    5.​ Use any skills that you wish.
    6.​ Decide if you wish to continue the Transmutation if you have turns remaining.
    7.​ End the Transmutation or repeat.
Some runes produce a backlash, a dangerous surge in the magic you are wielding. A backlash occurs
when certain runes are drawn. The backlash and any other effects of that specific rune affect the ritual
regardless of its position on The Road or even if it is on the board at all. The only way to prevent a
backlash rune from affecting the ritual is to negate it when it is drawn.

Completing the Transmutation
    1.​ Determining which runes affect the Transmutation.
    2.​ Determining the net positive or negative total of the flaw pools to see how any neutral flaw
        runes are resolved, if there are any.
    3.​ Adjudicating any flaws.
    4.​ Adjudicating any backlashes that may have accumulated.

Magic Item Tags
The guide creates a temporary tag for the magic item. Later, the Staff provides a permanent tag either
during the event or at check-in at the next event.
If your magical item’s cost was increased during the ritual and you do not have the amount required, the
item is dormant until the additional cost is used by a guide to empower the item. The expiration date of
the item in question would be based on when the item is no longer dormant.


                                                                                                            137
Rune Set




           138
139
                                 The World of Altharian
Regions
Virelle
“Where Light Lingers in the Mist”
Nestled high in the Aurenveil Mountains, Virelle is a fragile yet sovereign kingdom of misty valleys and
treacherous passes. Born from a brutal siege against Thrymvale 150 years ago that nearly extinguished
its founding houses, it now serves as a neutral buffer between radiant Soleilmarche and that infernal
Dominion. Virelle relies on a small military bolstered by Soleilmarche mercenaries to guard vital trade
routes, under the rule of Queen Mairelle Seravayn of House Seravayn. (also known as the Mistbound
Queen for her silver hair and subtle diplomacy). Its capital, Caerth Lir, is a cliff-perched fortress veiled in
eternal fog. Home to the Argent Table for neutral guild charters, with landmarks like the Falls of Aralithe
and Luredeep Caverns whispering of ancient holy sites corrupted by smuggling and hidden sects. Virelle's
people value quiet strength and tradition, with festivals such as the Candle Walk that light misty paths in
homage to the Sol Road, interpreted here as a veiled journey in which mists protect the faithful from the
shadow's grasp.
Virelle's history of war with Thrymvale has left cursed borders, like the Marche of Arkwright. Although
culturally allied with Soleilmarche, frustrations simmer over Virelle's refusal to join crusades, while
relations with the Concord emphasize shared vigilance against eastern threats. Penitents and Cupbearers
hold high esteem, guiding souls back to the Road amid restless mists said to grow agitated by spilled
blood. Resources are scarce, but Virelle exports diplomacy and mountain herbs, its inhabitants – bards,
warriors, and mystics – embody subtlety in a world of overt conflict, always balancing neutrality with the
echoes of past invasions.

The Kingdom of Soleilmarche
“Where the Sun Rides, Justice Follows.”
Soleilmarche endures as a realm both ancient and noble, its banners heavy with the weight of memory
and mission rather than mere gilt and pageantry. Rivaled by only Thrymvale in age, the kingdom was
founded by The Hundred Oathbearers – a fellowship of knights from across the continent - to be a haven
from the terror of ruthless western clans and to be a place ruled by honor, compassion, and justice.
King Alarien Valcoré II rules from Auralis, the Sun-Wreathed City, renowned for the beauty and grace of
its pale marble domes. He is advised by the Luminous Council, comprising members of the clergy, nobles,
and knight-commanders. The kingdom’s lands stretch from its fertile river valley to the Aurenveil
Mountains along the borders of neutral Virelle and hostile Thrymvale. Smaller cities dot the country;
Cavrion is home to the famed Dawnblades, while Mirevelle’s academies train the sharpest minds.
Soleilmarche trades extensively with its allies, the city-states of The Concord, and exports fine wines,
textiles, and goods of the highest craftsmanship. Travelers are welcomed in Soleilmarch for festivals,
martial tourneys, to enjoy theater and the arts, and for pilgrimages to the Sanctum of the Golden Road,
where miracles are performed in Aurethiel's name.
For all the grandeur of its cities and valor of its people, Soleilmarche is imperfect – even the sun casts
shadows. Despite its faults, or maybe because of them, the practice of the Sol Road here emphasises
redemption. They see Aurethiel, the Golden Lady, as their sovereign light and a guide back from the
darkness of life’s tribulations and failures. The Golden Cupbearer preaches compassion, mercy, and that
even enemies deserve the chance to lay down their arms before the sword is raised.

                                                                                                           140
The Concord
“We Stand as One, or Not at All.”
The Concord stands as a resilient confederation of several border nations/states, united against the
encroaching shadows of the Dominion of Thrymvale. Situated on the volatile frontier between radiant
western kingdoms like Soleilmarche and the infernal empire of the Dominion of Thrymvale to the east,
these states maintain fierce independence while pooling resources for mutual defense, shared
intelligence, and joint war councils. Governed by a loose pact rather than a single ruler, the Concord
embodies unyielding vigilance, where political friction and ancient secrets simmer beneath a surface of
desperate unity, turning border skirmishes into tales of survival against undeath.
In the Concord, faith in the Sol Road manifests through weathered endurance, with Aurethiel revered as
a guiding flame amid chaos.Though newer than Thrymvale's ancient tyranny, the Concord's history is
etched in wars of attrition. The nations fights range from repelling soul-harvesting legions in
Graevenmarch's forests, to the stalwart defense of Holdfast-on-Braen in their carefully sculpted
mountain villages, each fostering a society of watchful pragmatists who value collaboration over
conquest. How deep is the trust each Concord-state has in Liraeth's forbidden lore that binds spirits to
relics for desperate power? Will Red Emberen’s resistance to commit forces to the unified defense be
their undoing? And what of the other territories that are part of agreement, can they withstand the ever
present threat of Thrymvale? Could internal rivalries and the moral costs of arcane pacts test their
bonds, making the Concord a living wall where light lingers precariously against the dark?

The Dominion of Thrymvale
“What dies may serve; what serves may rise.”
Thrymvale looms as an ancient and accursed kingdom, its ash-choked plains, black marble cities, and
haunted highlands shaped by over eight centuries of rule under Emperor Veymar the Pale, a lich whose
necromantic tyranny transformed a once-scholarly kingdom into a dominion of undeath. Older than all
but Soleilmarche, Thrymvale’s history is marred by wars against its neighbor and the newer realms of
Virelle and the Concord, born from its failed conquests, with each conflict leaving scars of necrotic
plagues and soul-harvesting rituals. Ruled from the obsidian-spired capital of Threnovar, where the Vault
Spiral imprisons failed experiments, Thrymvale wages a creeping war of corruption, infiltrating Virelle’s
Luredeep Caverns with cults and fracturing the Concord’s unity through whispered promises of power.
The Obsidian Legion, Bonewright constructs, and Pale Choir soul-binders enforce Veymar’s will, their
borders pressing against Soleilmarche’s and the Concord’s defenses, where locations like the Charnel
Fields and County of Karrowvail stage relentless incursions.
Soleilmarche, as Thrymvale's ancient peer, has endured the longest conflict – a holy war rooted in
ideological clashes between radiant honor and undeath's embrace, with border skirmishes erupting into
full crusades multiple times across the centuries. The newer kingdoms and states, formed in the shadow
of Thrymvale's growing darkness, each bear scars from defensive wars against imperial incursions.
Virelle, carved from contested mountain territories about 150 years ago after a brutal siege that nearly
extinguished its founding houses, emerged as a neutral buffer state but not without bitter memories of
Thrymvalen undead hordes desecrating its passes. The Concord – a loose confederation forged roughly
100 years ago from fragmented borderlands, some of which Thrymvale once claimed as vassals – owes
its very existence to unified resistance against imperial aggression.

The Kingdom of Roses
“Where every bloom is a memory, and every thorn, a promise.”


                                                                                                     141
Hidden by curtains of mist and veils of wildflowers, the Kingdom of Roses is a fae-touched elven domain
where memory, magic, and beauty intertwine. Its origins are rooted in a mythical Garden Eternal whose
blooms attracted the Fae, inspiring them to adopt floral essences, thus the Blossom Elves and their
ever-shifting Wildwood were born. Ruled by the Rose Queen from the vine-wrapped capital of Elarielle,
the kingdom is a reflection of her careful nurturing, and when needed, pruning of her lands. Her agents
are the brave Thorn Knights who wield living weapons, the cunning Nightblooms for shadowy intrigue,
and observant Wardens patrolling the perilous forest for poachers and rogue wild fae magic. Settlements
like Vireth Hollow thrive on alchemy derived from the verdant bounty of the forest. At the same time,
Thornhold is built in and around a meticulously tended hedgemaze that serves as a training ground for
initiates as well as a means of protecting the town from trespassers. The Wildwood’s bounty, saturated
with ancient magic, yields products like Moonblush Nectar and Violet Reverie Wine.
Though not directly warring with Thrymvale like its neighbors, the kingdom's borders brush against
Soleilmarche and the Concord, sharing uneasy trade agreements amid fears of necrotic corruption
seeping into the Wildwood. Life in the kingdom fosters a society of artists and guardians who bloom in
light yet remember the thorns of loss; their fae heritage grants empathy for spiritual seasons in a world
shadowed by undeath.

The Grand Unity of Calvarezzo
“Gold is the road, but reason is the wheel.”
Centered on the Glittering Sound, the Grand Unity of Calvarezzo is an old and influential union of
provinces dedicated to trade and arcane exploration. They are strongly focused on peaceable bonds of
diplomacy and mercantile opportunity with its neighbors, as well as an illuminating, but safe, exchange
of scholarship, providing for one of the few bridges between other countries. In particular, The Grand
Unity maintains the only warily reliable interactions with Thrymvale through this trade and academic
exchange.
The Grand Unity, as foreign diplomats often refer to it, is a labyrinthine bureaucracy in control of a
collection of provinces, each conducting its own business. It is ruled by His Great Honor, Cosar Aurelio
Dellam Rossum, a well-respected philosopher-orator with a keen diplomatic eye. The Cosar is a prime
example of the country’s deep investment in scholarship, arcane knowledge, and love of debate and
diplomacy. While most diplomatic channels and official envoys pass through the Cosar’s office, it is
known that his advisory Argent Chamber and the Grand Unity’s Harmonic Chamber engage in most of
the internal legislating and maintenance of Calvarezzo ,as the member provinces informally refer to it.
The Grand Unity has the dual comforts of distance and a steady flow of trade luxuries from far-off
partners to keep antagonism with Thrymvale at bay, while forging strong ties with neighboring
Soleilmarche and the Concord. Sympathetic moguls, ruling the provinces. provide favorable terms with
the Concord members to stiffen their defenses, while the Cosar engages in overtly fair but firm
negotiations with Thrymvale’s Emperor. All while the Chambers keep the Grand Unity strong in the face
of Dominion pressure.




                                                                                                       142
The Faith of the Sol Road
"Each soul walks the Road alone, but none need walk in darkness."
This transcendent religion venerates Aurethiel as the Source Eternal, a radiant being who poured life into
the world and carved the Road of Light, a sacred journey every soul embarks upon from birth, known as
the Sol Road.
Faithful are tasked with enduring life's trials, resisting evil, and striving toward moral light. Falling from
the Road is common and not seen as a final defeat but as a challenge to rise again. Even those deemed
damned may find redemption, though no one can walk another's Road, emphasizing personal
responsibility within a supportive community.
The Church of the Sol Road rejects centralized control, favoring guided autonomy through the Circle of
Luminaries. This body interprets divine will and scripture, declares holy days and edicts, resolves
theological crises, and approves Torchbearerial missions across borders. The church's structure is
embodied in three holy orders, each with distinct roles and garb, serving the faithful in unique ways.

Orders of the Sol Road
Players may belong to multiple orders simultaneously. The only restriction is that someone on the
Penitent Path can not be a member of the Order of the Cup.

The Order of the Cup
Cupbearers focus on pastoral care and guidance on penance. Serving as counselors in villages, cities, and
among travelers. Wayward Cupbearers roam to seek the lost, guiding Penitents, performing the First
Step Rite, and presiding over Candle Vigils, living by the mantra, "We shine the lantern. You take the
step."

The Order of the Dawn
Torchbearers dedicate themselves to martial defense, spiritual enforcement, redemption, and judgment.
Clad in armor bearing a rising sun and broken chains, often carrying burning lanterns or sunstones, they
combat infernal threats, undead, heresies, and demons. They offer one chance for redemption before
delivering swift justice, swearing the Dawnblade Oath: "Let none fall while I yet stand," and proclaim,
"We clear the Road that others may walk."

The Order of the Light Seen
Sunseers pursue theological scholarship, magical detection, and investigation. These Cupbearers uncover
illusions, expose corruption, and chronicle divine phenomena. Traveling in trios to avoid bias, they record
"Twilight Journals" and hold the power to suspend clergy or Torchbearers deemed "blinded by shadow,"
guided by the creed, "What is hidden must burn in light."

The Penitent Path
Penitents are those with a visible spiritual status for those who have fallen through violence, betrayal,
sin, or corruption and choose public ritual restoration. Marked by brown robes, Penitents walk the Road
anew under a Cupbearer's guidance, embracing discipline, humility, and transformation. They bear their
missteps as both burden and beacon, treated with solemn respect and wary observation, free from
mockery but barred from religious office, relic-bearing, or speaking in certain rites until fully restored.


                                                                                                            143
Most Penitents are paired with a Cupbearer mentor who illuminates without judgment, providing
counsel, penance tasks, and weekly progress evaluations. This path highlights the faith’s emphasis on
redemption as a personal yet communal journey, closely watched by both clergy and laypeople.

Playing a Follower of the Sol Road
    ●​ Embrace the balance of personal struggle and public compassion.
    ●​ Your Road is yours alone, but your light can inspire others.
    ●​ Cupbearers should avoid giving orders; instead, offer guidance.
    ●​ Torchbearers should offer redemption before judgment, unless corrupted souls pose a danger to
       others.
    ●​ Penitents are rich in story potential; walk your redemption openly.
    ●​ Ask yourself: “Am I helping someone walk their own Road, or am I dragging them down mine?
The faith’s wisdom resonates in timeless sayings and blessings, such as the daily mantra "Survive the
Road from Twilight to Dawn," the travel blessing "Walk well, and walk wholly," the call to action "The Cup
is full, let it spill light," and the proverb of endurance "The Fountain flows for those who arrive
unbroken."




                                                                                                        144
Death, Resurrection, and the Vaelion Doors
In the world of Altharian, death is an inexorable fate for most souls. For the vast majority of inhabitants,
there is no return from death; the end is absolute, a stark reminder of mortality's grip. Yet in rare
circumstances, exceptions pierce this finality, allowing a soul to defy oblivion.
These exceptions are threefold: proximity to a Vaelion Door at the moment of death, the invocation of
the spell "Writ of the Vaelion Door," or the application of Corruption magic upon a lifeless body. Each
path carries its own perils, uncertainties, and costs, reflecting the world's delicate balance between light,
shadow, and undeath.

The Vaelion Doors
Scattered across the realms are ancient gateways known as Vaelion Doors—mystical portals that serve as
conduits between the mortal coil and realms beyond. Only two such doors are confirmed to exist in the
world. The first, and most renowned, resides within the Sanctum of Sol Steps in the kingdom of
Soleilmarche, a beacon of hope and pilgrimage for the faithful of the Sol Road. The second, shrouded in
secrecy and peril, lies hidden within the blighted March of Arkwright in Virelle, its existence whispered
among those who dare tread the frontier against Thrymvale's encroaching darkness.
When a soul perishes near a Vaelion Door, from any cause save the gentle erosion of old age, their spirit
is inexorably drawn toward the gate. This pull is an ethereal tether, guiding the departed through the
veil. Those who emerge on the other side often bear fragmented memories of what transpired beyond;
the experience is veiled in mystery, a blank expanse where recollection falters. Some return inspired,
their spirits ignited to achieve great deeds in the world of the living. Others are forever changed,
haunted by unseen scars that hinder their recovery. And some... never return at all, lost to whatever
awaits in the unknown.
As chronicled in the diary entries of Elara Gilman, Chronicler of the Gilman Thirteen, members of that
fellowship fell in battle within the March of Arkwright. Their spirits were drawn to the local Vaelion Door;
though they emerged alive, one among them, Mira, now endures an eternal sense of being hunted, as if
some malevolent entity clung to her essence and followed her back through the gate. This serves as a
grim example of the toll such a passage can exact, where the boundary between worlds thins and
unforeseen shadows may slip through.
Rule of Etiquette: When role-playing a return from a Vaelion Door, emphasize the disorientation and
memory loss to maintain immersion. Avoid detailed "beyond the Door" experiences unless guided by
plot-approved encounters, as these are intended to remain enigmatic and personal.

The Writ of the Vaelion Door
For those dwelling far from the protective auras of Soleilmarche or Virelle, such as in the bustling
provinces of Calvarezzo or the fractious states of the Concord, the spell "Writ of the Vaelion Door" offers
a slender thread of hope against untimely demise. This spell requires a caster who is both in physical
proximity and is emotionally bonded to the fallen at the moment of death. The spell empowers a
physical writ, a tangible scroll or inscription, that must be presented to the deceased's form.
For the writ to take true effect, it demands a compelling narrative: a heartfelt plea detailing why this soul
merits return from the abyss. The more personal and resonant the story—woven from shared memories,
unfulfilled oaths, or profound bonds—the greater its potency in swaying the unseen forces beyond the
door. Impersonal or rote invocations often fail, leaving the dead to their fate.



                                                                                                         145
Under normal circumstances, the spell anchors the spirit to the Vaelion Door in Soleilmarche's Sanctum
of Sol Steps. Thus, a soul revived in distant lands, such as Calvarezzo, awakens not at the site of their fall
but hundreds of miles away in Soleilmarche. This displacement transforms resurrection into a profound
logistical and emotional trial, stranding the revived amid unfamiliar lands, far from allies, possessions, or
unfinished deeds. The decision to invoke the writ is thus weighty, as it risks not only failure but also the
burdens of exile and reorientation in a world already fraught with peril.

Corruption Magics and Undeath
The third exception arises from the forbidden arts of Corruption, wielded most infamously by the
necromancers of Thrymvale. These dark rituals can bind a soul to its corpse, forcing a grotesque
semblance of life through undeath. Unlike the Vaelion Doors or the Writ, Corruption offers no true
resurrection—only a twisted existence as a wight, vampire, or other abomination, forever hungering and
bound to shadow. Such "revivals" erode the soul's humanity, often leading to eternal servitude under
figures like Emperor Veymar the Pale.
While potent, this path is reviled by the faithful of the Sol Road and carries severe in-game
consequences, including potential loss of character agency.




                                                                                                          146
